article_id: nbc_115
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/trump-spoke-savannah-guthrie-search-mother-continues-rcna257482
title: Trump spoke to Savannah Guthrie as search for her mother continues
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
President Donald Trump called "TODAY" co-anchor Savannah Guthrie on Wednesday to offer support as state and federal law enforcement officials continue investigating the disappearance of her mother, Nancy Guthrie .
Trump reached out to Savannah Guthrie shortly after an interview with "NBC Nightly News" anchor Tom Llamas. The president assured the Guthrie family that every resource was available as needed.
The president said he knew Savannah Guthrie is close to her 84-year-old mother, who was reported missing from her home outside Tucson, Arizona, on Sunday afternoon, after she did not show up at church.
Savannah Guthrie thanked Trump for taking the time to call her family, adding that they were devastated and praying, Llamas said. She said that the family needs prayers more than anything. She also thanked the president for the hard work of local and federal authorities on the case.
In a post on Truth Social late Wednesday, Trump said: "I spoke with Savannah Guthrie, and let her know that I am directing ALL Federal Law Enforcement to be at the family’s, and Local Law Enforcement’s, complete disposal, IMMEDIATELY."
"We are deploying all resources to get her mother home safely," the president added. "The prayers of our Nation are with her and her family. GOD BLESS AND PROTECT NANCY!"
The Pima County Sheriff's Department believes Nancy Guthrie was taken “possibly in the middle of the night, and that includes possible kidnapping or abduction.”
Authorities have said they have received “hundreds of leads” and have no credible information that Nancy Guthrie's disappearance was a targeted incident.
In a statement Wednesday, the sheriff’s department said investigators have not identified a suspect or person of interest in the case.
The FBI is now involved in the investigation, which also includes about 100 detectives from the sheriff’s office, and Trump said Tuesday he would commit to sending more federal agents to assist.
Guthrie has limited mobility and is without her necessary daily medication. Pima County Sheriff Chris Nanos has said that she has no cognitive issues and her disappearance was not linked to dementia, describing her as “sharp as a tack.”
“We have nothing else to go on but the belief that she is here, she’s present, she’s alive, and we want to save her,” Nanos said in an interview with NBC News.