article_id: nbc_124
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/select/shopping/ugg-amazon-sale-2026-rcna260499
title: Ugg Amazon Sale: The best deals to shop on boots, slippers and more
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
When it’s ice cold outside, all any of us probably want to do is cozy up indoors on the sofa with a warm drink, a robe and a comfortable pair of slippers . If this sounds like your ideal evening, then you’ll be happy to know that Ugg is having a major sale on Amazon, with deals of up to 50% off on slippers, boots and more. You can get deals on the brand’s popular Tasman and Koolaburra lineups and some of the brand’s apparel, including bath robes and pajama pants . Below, I rounded up some of the best footwear and apparel deals from the sale.
4.6-star average rating from 303 reviews on Amazon
These slippers have a fluffy outer layer made from wool and an outsole made of sugarcane EVA foam. They’re the perfect footwear for walking around the house on an extra-cold day with a cozy pair of socks . The internal lining is also wool and the slippers are available in two styles.
4.4-star average rating from 1,656 reviews on Amazon
The Koolaburra boots sit just above the ankle and keep your feet warm thanks to the faux-fur lining on the inside. They have a decorative bow on the side and padded, leather-lined insoles that provide comfort and help maintain their durability, according to the brand.
4.4-star average rating from 19 reviews on Amazon
These wide-leg pants are perfect for sleeping, thanks to their cozy knit texture made from recycled polyester. They’re high-waisted and have a flexible waistband and are available in more than five sizes.
Want more from NBC Select? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter.
I’m a commerce editor at NBC Select, where I write about deals and sales daily. I write about sales events from Home Depot, Lowe’s, Amazon and more. I also write about deals from home, kitchen and apparel brands.
Catch up on NBC Select’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date.