article_id: nbc_128
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/russian-family-ice-facility-mistreatment-released-immigration-rcna259349
title: Russian family who complained of mistreatment in ICE facility is released after 4 months
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
A family of Russian asylum-seekers was released from a South Texas immigrant detention center on Wednesday after more than four months in custody — an ordeal they say left the children anxious, sickened and afraid.
Nikita, his wife, Oksana, and their three children had been held since October at the Dilley Immigration Processing Center, where they said they endured worms and mold in their food, hourslong waits for medicine and restless nights under lights that never fully dimmed.
“Thank God,” Nikita said, speaking to a reporter in Russian after learning the news. “We’re ready.”
They were freed about a week after their attorney wrote a letter seeking their release on medical grounds and five days after NBC News published an article detailing what the family described as their nightmare in detention.
Last week, the Department of Homeland Security had told NBC News it was required by law to hold the family in custody until their asylum claims were heard. DHS did not immediately respond to questions about what prompted the reversal.
Before leaving Dilley and boarding a flight to California, the family gathered for a final video call with their lawyer and a reporter. The couple asked to be identified only by their first names because they fear retaliation if deported to Russia.
Their mood during the call was buoyant. Asked what they most wanted once they were free, the answers came quickly.
Kirill, 13, said he wanted a Subway sandwich. His sister, Kamilla, 12 — whose birthday had passed days earlier — said she hoped for sushi. Four-year-old Konstantin wanted to be reunited with his favorite stuffed animal, Stitch from the Disney movie “Lilo & Stitch,” which had been confiscated when officers detained them.
Their parents’ hopes were more fundamental.
“We want to be at our own home, feeling safe,” Nikita said. “There is no sense of being safe here.”