article_id: nbc_162
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/justice-department/uk-police-leaders-say-touch-overseas-law-enforcement-epstein-files-rcna259733
title: U.K. police leaders say they're in touch with overseas law enforcement about Epstein files
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Police leaders in the United Kingdom have said they are in touch with overseas law enforcement about millions of documents released by the Justice Department related to the investigation into Jeffrey Epstein , but sharing such information between different countries is time-consuming and complex.
The National Police Chiefs’ Council , a consortium of police agencies from around the U.K., has set up a national coordinating group for local police forces investigating Epstein-related claims. A spokesperson for the council said this week that it is working to coordinate information from overseas law enforcement agencies through approved channels.
The spokesperson said it may take time in part because of the “complexity of international jurisdictions, but policing and its law enforcement partners are taking this matter extremely seriously, and will assess all information thoroughly."
“The sharing of documents related to overseas criminal investigations between law enforcement agencies in different countries is an extremely complex process, and not straight forward,” the spokesperson said in a statement.
The U.S. and the U.K. have a mutual legal assistance agreement that allows foreign authorities to ask the Justice Department’s Office of International Affairs to provide information in support of U.K. investigations. According to legal experts, the U.S. is under no obligation to share potentially criminal findings in its investigations with foreign governments, but it does frequently partner with them.
The Justice Department has not confirmed whether any discussions have taken place or any information has been provided.
The former Prince Andrew , now known as Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor, was arrested Thursday on suspicion of misconduct in office after weeks of new revelations about his relationship with Epstein, a convicted sex offender who died by suicide in 2019 while he was awaiting trial on federal charges.
Mountbatten-Windsor, the brother of King Charles III, was stripped of his titles last year. He is the highest-profile figure to have faced criminal accusations in a scandal that continues to sweep in some of the world’s richest and most powerful people.