article_id: nbc_165
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/recapping-super-bowl-60-immigration-officials-warning-morning-rundown-rcna257996
title: Recapping Super Bowl 60 and an immigration official's warning: Morning Rundown
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
In today’s newsletter: The Seahawks dominated the Patriots to win their second Super Bowl. Border czar Tom Homan warned that public support for aggressive immigration tactics could falter months before he took over in Minneapolis. And the highs and lows of the Winter Olympics.
Here’s what to know today.
The Seattle Seahawks won their second Super Bowl, riding a dominant defensive performance to beat the New England Patriots 29-13 at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, California.
This is Morning Rundown, a weekday newsletter to start your day. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.
Seattle swarmed quarterback Drake Maye all game, sacking him six times and forcing three turnovers, leaving New England scoreless through the first three quarters. It was perhaps retribution for when the two teams first met in the big game 11 years ago — which ended in a notoriously shocking loss for the Seahawks.
The Seahawks’ offense was mostly powered by kicker Jason Myers, who set a Super Bowl record with five field goals. Running back Kenneth Walker III also excelled and took home the MVP award , which he described as a “surreal moment.”
Arguably, football was a sideshow to the main event: Benito Bowl. Bad Bunny made history as the first Spanish-language solo artist to headline the halftime show. He paid tribute to his Puerto Rican roots in a performance that featured a myriad of dancers, Lady Gaga and Ricky Martin.
The Grammy winner emphasized a message of unity, holding a football that said “Together we are America.” There was a literal union too —  yes, the wedding that happened on stage was real.
Read our full recap here.
Long before border czar Tom Homan took over in Minneapolis, he warned that a targeted approach to immigration enforcement would be needed to “keep the faith of the American people.”
Homan, who has served as a Homeland Security official under Obama and both Trump administrations, has long said immigrants who have committed additional crimes should be prioritized for arrest and deportation.
In an interview in June for an upcoming book, he warned that failing to do this could cost the Trump administration support with the public.
“I think the vast majority of the American people think criminal illegal aliens need to leave. And if we stick to that prioritization, I think we keep the faith of the American people,” Homan told NBC News, as Border Patrol agents were conducting their first large-scale raids in Los Angeles.
Read the full exclusive interview here.
It was a weekend of highs and lows at the Winter Olympics.
Skier Lindsey Vonn suffered a devastating crash and was airlifted off the course with a broken leg just 13 seconds into the downhill final. Breezy Johnson ended up taking home gold in the event to give the U.S. its first medal of the Games.
In the figure skating team event, Team USA was tied with Japan for first place heading into the final segment. “Quad God” Ilia Malinin landed a backflip during his freeskate, which clinched the group’s spot at the top of the podium.
Five medal events are on tap today, including the women’s 1000m speedskating , where world record holder Brittany Bowe and champion Erin Jackson will compete. Americans Madison Chock and Evan Bates look to continue their dominant start in rhythm dance and the U.S. women’s hockey team faces Switzerland.
Follow live updates on our blog . And see today’s full schedule here .
In an interview with “NBC Nightly News” anchor Tom Llamas, the 47th president said the country is already experiencing the Trump economy.
“I’d say we’re there now,” the president said. “I’m very proud of it.”
His remarks come at a time when most Americans tell pollsters they are not satisfied with the state of the economy and as Trump executes a barnstorming strategy to bring his economic message to political battlegrounds before the November midterms.
An NPR/Marist/PBS News survey released last week showed that 36% of adults say they approve of Trump’s handling of the economy, while 59% disapprove.
In the interview, the president blamed Joe Biden for stubbornly high costs on some staples. Here’s how grocery prices have changed since Trump took office.
Read the full story here.
The full interview transcript is here.
As thousands of residents in the Nashville area closed in on their second week without power after a brutal winter storm, there were frustrations and a lot of questions about what went wrong.
An announcement over the weekend by the Nashville Electric Service that power has been restored “to all customers capable of receiving it” is long overdue for residents who slept in their coats and huddled in their cars to keep warm.
But don’t expect the questions to stop. Nashville’s mayor has launched a review.
And some conservatives are scrutinizing the utility’s DEI training and calling for an overhaul of the electric company. Lights might have come back on, but the culture war issue shows no sign of thawing soon.
— Bracey Harris, national reporter
We love a good hobby. One of our editors put biking gear to the test by trekking over 40 miles in a day. Another rounded up the best tools for gardeners . Meanwhile, one of our avid runners tested over 30 running shoes to find the top picks for men.
Sign up to The Selection newsletter for hands-on product reviews, expert shopping tips and a look at the best deals and sales each week.
Thanks for reading the Morning Rundown. Today’s newsletter was curated for you by Kayla Hayempour. If you’re a fan, please send a link to your family and friends. They can sign-up here.