article_id: nbc_17
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/weekend-rundown-february-22-rcna259947
title: Olympics close with a hockey thriller, and a man is shot near Mar-a-Lago: Weekend Rundown
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Forty-six years to the day since the U.S. men’s hockey team paved the way to Olympic gold with a miracle victory, Team USA earned gold again, this time with a sudden-death stunner.
Jack Hughes scored 1 minute, 41 seconds into overtime, firing the puck between the legs of goaltender Jordan Binnington to beat Canada 2-1 in overtime.
“This is all about our country right now. I love the USA,” Hughes told NBC after the game. “I love my teammates.”
It marked only the third time the U.S. men won Olympic gold, following wins in 1960 and the “Miracle on Ice” team that shocked the Soviet Union on Feb. 22, 1980, then later went on to beat Finland in the gold-medal game.
U.S. Secret Service agents and a Palm Beach County Sheriff’s Office deputy shot and killed a man who entered the secure perimeter at Mar-a-Lago with “what appeared to be a shotgun and a fuel can,” the Secret Service announced Sunday.
Two law enforcement sources identified the suspect to NBC News as Austin Tucker Martin, a 21-year-old North Carolina man.
Palm Beach County Sheriff Ric Bradshaw said two Secret Service agents went to investigate after the security detail detected that someone entered the Florida club’s perimeter.
“They confronted a white male that was carrying a gas can and a shotgun,” Bradshaw said. “He was ordered to drop those two pieces of equipment that he had with him, at which time he put down the gas can, raised the shotgun to a shooting position.”
No law enforcement officers were injured, the Secret Service said. President Donald Trump was not at Mar-a-Lago during the incident.
Roughly 41 million people were under blizzard warnings from Maryland to Maine as a powerful winter storm threatened to bring up to 2 feet of snow and strong winds to parts of the region.
The strongest part of the storm was expected to come during the evening and overnight hours into Monday, with the possibility of 2 to 4 inches of snowfall per hour and 50 to 70 mph wind gusts.
Several school districts, including those in New York City and Boston, announced schools will be closed.
This is the first blizzard warning issued for New York City since 2017 and for Philadelphia since 2016. The last time all of New Jersey was under a blizzard warning was in 1996, while the last time all of Delaware was under a blizzard warning was 2010.
President Donald Trump said he was hiking his newly announced global tariff to 15% , less than a day after announcing a 10% worldwide duty.
Trump is implementing the new levy under Section 122 of the 1974 Trade Act, which is different from the law under which the prior tariffs were ruled illegal.
Under this law, the tariffs can last for up to 150 days, after which Congress may have to take action to extend them. It’s unclear whether the administration could immediately restart the duty with another executive order after they expire.
More than half a dozen of the country’s largest LGBTQ hockey leagues said they’ve seen interest from both fans and prospective players spike over the last three months since the success of “Heated Rivalry.”
The show — centered around a romance between two rival pro hockey players — came at a fraught cultural moment for the sport. Multiple National Hockey League teams have recently stopped hosting Pride nights, or face backlash when they do.
Some players in queer leagues said they hope the series will help bring their decadeslong fight to improve the sport they love into the public sphere.
“There’s always work to be done,” said Joey Gale, vice president and co-founder of the Seattle Pride Hockey Association. “But because of all of this new momentum, it feels like we’ve gotten a new spark of energy.”
For most of my life I ate at least one Reese’s Butter Cup per day, and sometimes something seasonal like a Reese’s heart or a Reese’s Christmas tree. But this was inedible. I threw it in the garbage.
For the grandson of the inventor of the Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup, all it took was one bite of a Valentine’s Day Reese’s Mini Hearts to leave him heartbroken. Hershey’s, which makes the beloved butter cups and seasonal spinoffs like mini-hearts, had replaced the milk chocolate with a chocolate-flavored coating.