article_id: nbc_22
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/fact-checking-trumps-interview-plan-promote-marriage-kids-schools-morn-rcna257513
title: Fact-checking Trump's interview and a plan to promote marriage before kids in schools: Morning Rundown
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
In today’s newsletter: Trump talks Minneapolis, Joe Rogan, the Fed, AI and 2028 in a wide-ranging Oval Office interview with Tom Llamas. “TODAY” co-host Savannah Guthrie and her family plead for their mother’s return. And Super Bowl gamblers find a way around sports betting bans.
Here’s what to know today.
In a wide-ranging Oval Office interview with NBC News’ Tom Llamas, President Donald Trump covered topics from AI to possible U.S. attacks on Iran. He also claimed credit for the state of the economy, expressed hopes to push his immigration crackdown into five more cities, and declined to rule out attempting to run for a third term.
Here are some of the top moments from the extended interview. More of their conversation will air exclusively during NBC’s Super Bowl LX Pregame Show on Sunday.
Economy: Trump said he has been deeply frustrated with Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell’s refusal to lower interest rates faster, which the president sees as a potential boon for the economy. Pressed about whether the Fed was an “independent body,” Trump replied: “I mean, in theory, it’s an independent body. But I think, you know, I’m a smart guy. I know the economy better than almost everybody.”
Minneapolis and immigration: Trump said he hopes to push his immigration crackdown into five more cities, while insisting the operations are still highly targeted at what administration officials call “the worst of the worst.”
But he said he has taken away lessons from the Minneapolis raids that divided Americans and lawmakers: “I learned that maybe we can use a little bit of a softer touch, but you still have to be tough.”
Third term: Llamas pressed Trump whether he sees any scenario in which he’s still president in 2029. “I don’t know. It would be interesting,” he said. “But wouldn’t it be terrible if I agreed with you, if I gave you the answer that you’re looking for? It would make life so much less exciting. It would be so much less exciting. But I only do this for one reason: Make America great again, and that’s what we’re doing.”
Asked to pick a favorite politician on the right, Trump floated Vice President JD Vance and Secretary of State Marco Rubio, though he declined to clarify who he would prefer to lead a 2028 ticket.
Read more from Tom Llamas’ interview with the president.
Read a fact-check of Trump’s interview comments.
And read the extended transcript here.
In a tearful Instagram video, “TODAY” co-anchor Savannah Guthrie pleaded for more information from her 84-year-old mother’s possible kidnapper, saying her family is “ready to talk.”
She said her family was aware of reports about a ransom letter sent to at least two media outlets. The county sheriff’s department said investigators have not identified a suspect or a person of interest in the case. Authorities previously said they had no credible information that Nancy Guthrie’s possible abduction was a targeted incident.
Trump said he would commit to sending more resources to help. The president called Savannah Guthrie after his interview with Tom Llamas, offering words of support for her and her family.
Read the latest updates in the case.
Last month, an Indiana state senator made a bold promise: Require public schools to teach the importance of getting married before having children, and “the chance of them being poor is almost zero.”
Republican state Sen. Spencer Deery’s idea for an “anti-poverty” measure is part of a three-step formula touted by conservatives to boost young people’s chances of financial stability: obtaining a high school diploma or higher degree, finding a full-time job, and getting married before having children.
Critics say the sequence is built upon dubious data, overlooks racial disparities and shames students who are raised in single-parent households. Several studies found that the causation element was weak, including one funded by the Department of Health and Human Services that showed that achieving those life milestones, regardless of order, was what was associated with a lower level of impoverishment.
The bill passed the state Senate last week 39-9, and is expected to go before the state House as soon as next week.
Read more about the bill ahead of the House vote.
Plenty of states have not legalized sports betting — but Super Bowl-sized loopholes in the form of “prediction market” platforms like Kalshi and Polymarket allow anyone to wager on the games anyway.
California, where the Super Bowl will take place Sunday, has a 100-year-old statute that makes it a misdemeanor to accept, record or make a sporting event bet. Yet the markets’ expansion into the state exposes the murky, legally ill-defined question of what constitutes a bet.
The scale of activity around this year’s Super Bowl helps explain why prediction markets have drawn such scrutiny. Kalshi reported a six-fold jump from last year’s Super Bowl winner market, which they attributed to the overall rising popularity of such platforms.
Learn more about the hundreds of millions being poured into bets.
Every year, factories in China churn out all kinds of decorations for the Lunar New Year including piles of plush toys made according to the Chinese zodiac. The stuffed dragons, snakes, dogs, and other auspicious animals are always popular here because they are designed to be mascots to bring good fortune.
But an unlikely icon is galloping into the spotlight after a factory worker made a mistake and sewed the faces of the horses he was making upside down — sporting a distinct pout instead of a cheerful smile.
Almost immediately, “Cry Cry Horse” went viral across China’s internet. Knock-off versions cropped up overnight. The store owner who initially ordered the accidental version was so overwhelmed she had to post a message on social media channels begging people to stop calling.
The frowning horse with its tufty mane is popular for the way it sums up the vibe of a world turned upside down. Exhausted young office workers here have unofficially adopted Cry Cry Horse as a totem reflecting their mood at work. The horse’s hashtag on Douyin, China’s version of TikTok, has been viewed at least 200 million times.
With its apprehensive expression, Cry Cry Horse is like an emotional support animal for what is expected to be a tumultuous Year of the Horse in the world. Naturally, I bought one.
— Janis Mackey Frayer, Beijing-based correspondent for NBC News
If your hair health has been top of mind lately, Select editors spoke to experts who explained the efficacy of dermarolling for hair growth , the best products for greasy hair , and why co-washing can be a game changer for curly and coily hair.
Sign up to The Selection newsletter for hands-on product reviews, expert shopping tips and a look at the best deals and sales each week.
Thanks for reading today’s Morning Rundown. Today’s newsletter was curated for you by Marissa Martinez. If you’re a fan, please send a link to your family and friends. They can sign-up here .