article_id: nbc_25
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/pop-culture/celebrity/on-the-lot-newsletter-epstein-fallout-hollywood-surprise-strike-rcna259942
title: On the Lot: Epstein fallout in Hollywood, and a surprise strike
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Welcome back to ON THE LOT , our weekly newsletter with fresh reporting and analysis on the biggest storylines in Hollywood.
In today’s edition: Casey Wasserman’s latest cancellation, Hollywood’s ironic new labor pains, confessions of A-list casting director Francine Maisler and this week’s recommendations.
Got tips (On L.A. Olympic committee gossip or how to get Springsteen tickets at the Forum)? You can reach me at rebecca.keegan@nbcuni.com or on Signal at thatrebecca.82.
To receive this newsletter in your inbox, sign up for an NBC News subscription.
If you want a simple example of how the icky fallout of the Epstein scandal is playing out West, take a look at a decidedly evolving event that was supposed to happen at the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts on Feb. 26 honoring mogul Casey Wasserman and L.A. Lakers team governor Jeanie Buss .
At the beginning of this week, the splashy event, called “The Wallis Delivers: Cheers to the Home Team,” appeared to be on. This is even after Wasserman announced he is selling his namesake talent agency because of fallout from his communications with Ghislaine Maxwell and after L.A. Mayor Karen Bass said Wasserman should step down as chair of the LA28 Olympics committee.
Sponsored by the Tom Gores Family Foundation — the Detroit Pistons owner’s philanthropy — and chaired by NBA Commissioner Adam Silver , the gala had a power-packed list of donors, including soon-to-retire Disney CEO Bob Iger , basketball legend Michael Jordan , Paramount Skydance President Jeff Shell , music manager Irving Azoff , former Paramount CEO Sherry Lansing , Kardashian momager Kris Jenner , comedian Jay Mohr , actor Debbie Allen and her husband, former NBA player Norm Nixon , and many, many others.
The Los Angeles Olympics organizing committee’s board continues to stand by Wasserman after it said an investigation was conducted, and Wasserman hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.
But by Wednesday, as Wasserman’s perceived toxicity grew, I happened to notice the Wallis Center had quietly eliminated his name from the webpage for the event , which otherwise looked to be proceeding as normal in honoring Buss. Interestingly, Buss, who sits on the LA28 board and who has made a personal brand out of empowering women in the male-dominated sports world, is one of the names I’m hearing floated as a possible replacement for Wasserman as the LA28 chair should he step down or be ousted.
By Thursday, both Wasserman and Buss had been struck from the event’s description. The website now says the event is being rescheduled to May 21—perhaps by that time the matters of the Olympics and of Wasserman’s place in polite society will have been decided? Representatives for Wasserman, Buss and the Wallis Center didn’t respond to requests for comment about the event over the week. But tables are still available, in packages up to $250,000. And to all those VIPs who suddenly have next Thursday night free … see you at the Kings game?
In a plot twist even the Writers Guild of America’s talented members couldn’t script, the WGA West’s own staff is out on strike just one month before the writers and studios are set to bargain over their next contract. The staffers I spoke to say the WGA has surveilled them, fired people for joining a union and engaged in bad-faith bargaining, including being unwilling to talk to them about artificial intelligence protections for their jobs. You read that right.