article_id: nbc_35
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/news/us-news/house-likely-vote-today-reopen-government-nasa-delays-moon-mission-rcna257161
title: House likely to vote today to reopen government and NASA delays moon mission: Morning Rundown
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
In today’s newsletter: House Republican leaders plan a vote to pass a government funding package three days after a shutdown began. NASA delays its mission to send four astronauts on a journey around the moon after issues arose during testing. And “TODAY” co-anchor Savannah Guthrie’s mother was taken from her home against her will, authorities say.
Here's what to know today.
The House is expected to vote on a Senate-approved government funding package after divisions in Congress over changes to the Department of Homeland Security prompted a partial shutdown. Barring a mass exodus among Republicans, the bill is likely to pass.
This is Morning Rundown, a weekday newsletter to start your day. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.
The package, which passed the Senate 71-29, would complete funding for the government to the tune of more than $1 trillion — except DHS, which will carry on with a two-week stopgap bill as Democrats demand guardrails on immigration enforcement operations.
President Donald Trump threw his support behind the legislation yesterday to strengthen momentum. Aside from Rep. Thomas Massie of Kentucky, nearly all Republicans have proven malleable to Trump’s demands if he piles on the pressure. Connecticut Rep. Rosa DeLauro, the top Democrat on the Appropriations committee, said she would support the package, indicating that at least some fellow party members will vote for the measure.
She said the short-term DHS measure “gives us time and it gives us leverage to secure the protections that we need for our communities.”
“If we do not do that, we will not be able to bring the kinds of pressure that is necessary to make sure that ICE does not continue to terrorize our communities,” DeLauro added.
Passage would mean most of the government would be funded through Sept. 30 and would set a Feb. 13 deadline to fund DHS or shut down that department.
Read more about today’s vote here.
Former President Bill Clinton and his wife, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, have agreed to testify in a House investigation into Jeffrey Epstein. It is not immediately clear when and where they will do so.
The House Oversight Committee subpoenaed the Clintons in August along with several top former Justice Department officials, though the couple refused to testify last month. Their attorneys offered last weekend to have Bill Clinton sit for a four-hour transcribed interview in New York City while Hillary Clinton answered additional questions through a sworn declaration — terms that were rejected by committee chair James Comer, a Kentucky Republican, yesterday.
The committee voted to advance contempt resolutions for the Clintons to the House floor, and a vote by the full House was possible as early as this week.
Bill Clinton has denied any wrongdoing. He previously said that he cut ties with Epstein before the financier was accused in 2006 of having sex with a minor.
More about their upcoming deposition here.
More Epstein files news:
Arizona investigators probing the disappearance of Nancy Guthrie, “TODAY” co-anchor Savannah Guthrie’s mother, said they believe she was taken from her home against her will.
Pima County Sheriff Chris Nanos described Guthrie’s home as a “crime scene.” She was taken “possibly in the middle of the night and that includes possible kidnapping or abduction,” his department said in a statement.
Guthrie, 84, was last seen Saturday night in her home outside Tucson. She has limited mobility and needs to take medication daily or “it could be fatal,” Nanos said. She had no cognitive issues, and her disappearance was not linked to dementia, he added, describing her as being “of sound mind” and “sharp as a tack.”
Read more about the investigation here.
NASA said it was delaying its mission to send four astronauts on a journey around the moon, after issues arose during a critical test of its enormous rocket.
Shortly after 2 a.m. ET on Tuesday, NASA announced it would forgo February’s launch window for the Artemis II mission around the moon, which extended from Friday through Feb. 11, to allow teams to review data and conduct another “wet dress rehearsal.” It said it will now aim for March “as the earliest possible launch opportunity.”
Artemis II will be the second trip to space for NASA’s Space Launch System rocket and Orion capsule, but the first time they carry humans.
The much-anticipated launch is expected to represent a crucial step toward realizing NASA’s goal of returning astronauts to the lunar surface .
Read more about the mission here.
Prosecutors in Paris said they asked Elon Musk to appear for questioning as part of an investigation into the distribution of sexual deepfakes and Holocaust denial content, after searching X’s offices in the French capital.
The search was carried out by the prosecutor’s cybercrime unit, in partnership with French police’s own cybercrime unit and Europol, the office said on X.
A voluntary summons was issued for Musk and former X CEO Linda Yaccarino to appear and answer questions about the platform’s adherence to French law.
Read more about the raid here.
The gay hockey romp “Heated Rivalry” has found an unexpected audience in Russia, where fans can face extremism charges for publicly displaying their love for the show.
The show has grabbed attention for its steamy sex scenes but garnered praise for its depiction of LGBTQ relationships — something that is strictly off-limits in the deeply conservative country.
“Like with any queer content, it’s a Russian roulette. It may be OK or you may be fined or go to jail. That’s what’s so scary,” one fan said, adding you never know what you can be charged for.
Select editors are constantly tracking  what’s up-and-coming. They forecast the top 2026 shopping trends , they researched the best streaming devices for watching the latest shows and rounded up new and notable launches over the past month.
Sign up to The Selection newsletter for hands-on product reviews, expert shopping tips and a look at the best deals and sales each week.
Thanks for reading today's Morning Rundown. Today’s newsletter was curated for you by Marissa Martinez. If you’re a fan, please forward it to your family and friends. They can sign up here .