article_id: nbc_81
url: https://www.nbcnews.com/select/shopping/best-kn95-face-masks-ncna1259013
title: The best KN95 masks and how to shop for them, according to experts
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fewer people wear face masks than during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, but they’re still great personal protective equipment to keep at home. They can help prevent illness and protect the people around you, especially if you’re experiencing symptoms like sneezing and coughing.
There are many face masks to choose from, but according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention , properly fitting respirators offer the most protection. Experts say N95 respirators are the gold standard of face masks, but some people find them uncomfortable. High-quality KN95 masks, which offer similar protection, can be a more comfortable alternative.
After speaking with experts for tips on buying KN95 masks, I found a handful of options that meet their criteria. Plus, I bought and tried all of the face masks below to ensure their packaging, features and fit align with what experts say to expect.
Want more from NBC Select? Sign up for our newsletter, The Selection, and shop smarter.
These Hotodeal masks were included on the FDA's EUA list. They come in a packs of 20, 40, 60 and 120, and are built with an adjustable nose bridge and stretchy ear loops, and come in colors like white, black and grey.
Powecom’s KN95 masks were featured on the FDA’s EUA list. They are available in black and white, as well as multiple colors, all of which come in a pack of 10. You can also purchase individually packaged KN95s. The masks have an adjustable nose piece and their ear loops are latex-free, according to the brand.
Out of all the masks I’ve tried, I find these to be the most comfortable due to their round shape. The mask doesn’t press up against my mouth, making it easy to speak, and the panels around the perimeter help create a tight fit against my face without leaving indentations in my skin. I wore these masks for three years while attending college classes during the pandemic, and I still buy them today.
Evolvetogether’s KN95 masks come in a pack of five and are individually wrapped in biodegradable pouches. Each mask has six layers, an adjustable nose bridge and stretchy ear loops. The KN95 masks come in multiple colors.
WellBefore offers KN95 masks in multiple colors and lets you choose between standard ear loops and head straps. The masks have an adjustable nose bridge, and you can purchase as few as 10 masks, which come individually wrapped. Note: The price listed above reflects the cost of 10 KN95 masks with standard ear loops. You must purchase a minimum of 10 masks per order.
Here are the factors I kept in mind while shopping for KN95 masks:
It’s difficult, if not impossible, to be sure that the KN95 mask you’re buying is real just by looking at it, says Dr. Jeremy Friese, a former Mayo Clinic physician and founder and CEO of Humata Health . To help guide your shopping, the CDC offers a list of tips to help you spot masks that may not meet the necessary standards.
Experts I interviewed recommend reviewing your masks before wearing them with the following in mind:
You should also review lab testing documents that clearly illustrate how well a mask acts as a filter before you use it, says Anne Miller, executive director of Project N95 , a nonprofit that helps people source personal protective equipment and medical supplies. Some brands publish these documents online, while others may send you them if you ask.
Another factor to consider while shopping for KN95 masks is FDA registration. To register with the FDA, manufacturers pay a fee and submit certain criteria about their business. Though this is better to have than not, FDA registration has no bearing on the quality of the face mask itself, and it does not denote FDA approval of the mask or its manufacturer. Miller also says the list of KN95 models the FDA specifically approved in its 2020 emergency use authorization is one of the best resources to use when sourcing the respirators, even after the FDA stopped updating the list in 2021.
A KN95 face mask is a type of disposable respirator. (Most people use “mask” and “respirator” interchangeably, but when the CDC and medical professionals say “respirator,” they specifically mean specialized, fitted face coverings like N95s, KN95s and KF94s.) It filters 95% of particulate matter, just like the N95 mask, says Dr. Nina Shapiro , a pediatric ear, nose and throat specialist at Westside Head and Neck in California.
KN95 masks are the Chinese equivalent of an N95 respirator in the U.S. A Chinese governing body similar to the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health sets the standard for KN95 masks in China. Since they’re designed to meet a Chinese standard, KN95s are not regulated in the U.S.
From April 2020 to June 2021, the FDA had a temporary emergency use authorization that allowed U.S. health workers to use KN95s on the job. It later ended the EUA because NIOSH-approved respirators were no longer in short supply.
Currently, there are no state- or city-wide masking regulations in the U.S. However, wearing a face mask, be it a KN95 or another type, can help protect you from viruses like Covid, the flu and the common cold, as well as prevent you from spreading illness if you're experiencing symptoms. This is especially true during annual flu season and busy summer travel seasons.
The highest risk settings for viral spread are crowded indoor environments like airplanes, trains, busses and concert venues, says Shapiro. She also recommends wearing a face mask in waiting areas at doctors' offices or hospitals since viruses tend to frequently circulate in these settings.
If you’re exhibiting symptoms of a respiratory illness like coughing, sneezing or a fever, you should stay home and not spend time in public spaces, says Shapiro. But if you have to leave your home to visit the doctor or pick up medication, for example, it's best to wear a face mask to protect those around you.
“KN95 masks are quite effective, especially if they’re worn correctly and by multiple people in a given setting,” says Shapiro. “While they’re not as form-fitting as N95 masks, their efficacy is nearly as good as N95s. And given that they’re more comfortable, they’re more likely to be worn for longer periods of time.”
KN95 masks are disposable face coverings, so you can’t wash and reuse them like you can a cloth mask. However, you don’t have to toss a KN95 mask after a single use. A KN95 mask can be worn multiple times If you remove and store it properly . Shapiro says KN95s should be stored in a paper bag between uses. If you notice that a mask is wet or dirty, or if it’s damaged — for example, if any part of it is worn away, or if the straps are broken or stretched — you should throw it out, she says.
Shapiro says she wouldn’t wear a KN95 more than three or four times maximum, especially if doing so for multiple hours. Additionally, if you knowingly come into close contact with someone infected with Covid, or you yourself have Covid while wearing it, you should throw the mask out after a single use.
No, KN95 masks are not FDA-approved or NIOSH-approved. KN95 masks are designed to meet a Chinese standard and they’re not regulated in the U.S. So if you see the phrases “FDA-approved” or “NIOSH-approved” on the packaging of KN95 masks, it’s a red flag. Learn more about signs that a mask is a counterfeit through CDC resources here .
The CDC recommends making sure it completely covers your mouth and nose and fits tightly against your face to prevent gaps around the sides of the mask, nose and chin.  Regardless of the type of mask you wear, it won’t protect you or the people around you unless you wear it correctly.
All masks fit differently, and features like adjustable ear loops and an adjustable nose bridge help you improve the fit of your mask, as do mask fitters or braces , according to the CDC. Using a fitter or brace is especially a good idea for people with facial hair, which can make it difficult to achieve a tight fit.
The CDC says you should not double-mask while wearing a KN95 mask. Friese adds that a KN95 mask generally offers more protection than double-masking anyway, as long as it fits well. You should not wear international respirators with exhalation valves or vents, either, according to the CDC — this guidance applies to all masks.
“N95 masks remain the option with the best protection to both the wearer and those around them,” says Shapiro. “That said, they are quite uncomfortable, which usually means lower compliance when it comes to wearing them for prolonged periods of time in general settings.” Because of this, many people tend to wear KN95 masks in everyday scenarios — they’re quite effective if you buy high quality models and wear them properly, says Shapiro. Healthcare workers, however, should always wear N95 masks while treating patients with active infections.
Respirators, approved by NIOSH, including N95s, provide the most protection. Face masks help reduce the risk of respiratory virus transmission between people, according to the CDC . In their guide to masks and respirators , the CDC prioritizes respirators above masks with emphasis on a proper fit, and specifies that they’re better than cloth products. Here's a cheat sheet of the different levels of protection offered by different masks and respirators:
At NBC Select, we work with experts with specialized knowledge and authority based on relevant training and/or experience. We also ensure that all expert advice and recommendations are made independently and with no undisclosed financial conflicts of interest.
I'm a reporter at NBC Select who has covered face masks since 2020. I've written about disposable masks, KN95 masks, N95 masks and KN95 masks for kids , in addition to at-home Covid tests and vaccine card holders . For this article, I spoke to three experts about how to shop for KN95 masks and tried every mask I recommend.
Catch up on NBC Select’s in-depth coverage of tech and tools , wellness and more, and follow us on Facebook , Instagram , Twitter and TikTok to stay up to date.