article_id: cbs_149
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/this-week-on-sunday-morning-feb-22-2026/
title: This week on "Sunday Morning" (Feb. 22)
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 22, 2026 / 3:42 PM EST / CBS News
The Emmy Award-winning "CBS News Sunday Morning" is broadcast on CBS Sundays beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET.  "Sunday Morning" also streams on the CBS News app beginning at 11:00 a.m. ET. ( Download it here .)
Hosted by Jane Pauley
WATCH THE FULL FEBRUARY 22 BROADCAST!
COVER STORY: How safe is America from polio? | Watch Video After decades of American children routinely receiving polio vaccines, the virus that had doomed many to paralysis was nearly eliminated in the United States. But vaccine avoidance today may allow the crippling disease to return. CBS News chief medical correspondent Dr. Jonathan LaPook talks with David Oshinsky, author of "Polio: An American Story," and with violin virtuoso Itzhak Perlman, who contracted polio as a child, about how parents opting out of vaccinations for their children could affect polio rates here.
WEB EXCLUSIVE: Extended interview Itzhak Perlman (Video) Famed violinist Itzhak Perlman talks with CBS News chief medical correspondent Dr. Jonathan LaPook about his experience after contracting polio as a child, several years before the development of a polio vaccine, and the obstacles in life to which he has had to adjust because of his disability. He has advice for those who question taking the vaccine. He also talks about the effect of music on the brain, and how he wishes to be remembered.
ALMANAC: February 22 (Video) "Sunday Morning" looks back at historical events on this date.
ARTS: The legacy of the Studio Museum in Harlem (Video) In 1968, a group of artists, activists, and community members founded the Studio Museum in Harlem. It was a space not just for displaying works celebrating the contributions of African-American artists, but also to foster up-and-coming artists through a residency program. Now, following a seven-year, $160 million renovation, the Studio Museum has reopened. Nancy Giles pays a visit.
SPORTS: Athletes describe emotional journeys as 2026 Winter Olympics draw to a close (Video) As the Milano Cortina Winter Games draw to a close, skiers Mikaela Shiffrin and Breezy Johnson, figure skater Ilia Malinin, and bobsledder Elana Meyers Taylor talk about the Olympic-level pressure they endured in their quest for gold, while grappling with a vast range of emotions on the world's biggest sports stage. Seth Doane reports.
PASSAGE: Remembering Jesse Jackson, an American original | Watch Video Mark Whitaker looks back on the life of The Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Baptist minister, civil rights leader and social justice activist, whose trailblazing presidential campaigns, built on a message of economic support and faith-based compassion, fostered his so-called "Rainbow Coalition."
Photographs courtesy of:
PASSAGE: In memoriam (Video) "Sunday Morning" remembers some of the notable figures who left us this week, including Academy Award-winning actor Robert Duvall.
JOURNALISM: Seymour Hersh, a reporter's reporter | Watch Video For six decades, Seymour Hersh's reporting for such publications as The New York Times and The New Yorker has changed public opinion and government policy – from documenting the My Lai massacre during the Vietnam War, to uncovering torture by American service members at the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. "60 Minutes" correspondent Lesley Stahl talks with the Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist about his career exposing corruption, and where he believes America stands now. She also talks with Laura Poitras, co-director of a new documentary on Hersh, "Cover-Up," about putting the reporter with a reputation for crankiness on camera.
To watch a trailer for "Cover-Up," click on the video player below:
FROM THE ARCHIVES: Seymour Hersh - The life of a "Reporter" | Watch Video A memoir by the Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative journalist recounts a blockbuster career from the Golden Age of journalism. David Martin reports.
HEADLINES: Fallout from the arrest of Andrew stemming from Jeffrey Epstein (Video) Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor, the former Prince Andrew, was arrested in England Thursday on suspicion of misconduct in public office stemming from his involvement with the late financier Jeffrey Epstein. Mountbatten-Windsor has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. Elizabeth Palmer reports on reaction to the arrest, which has raised questions about Epstein scandal-related justice in the United States.
MOVIES: Rose Byrne on playing a woman at the end of her rope in "If I Had Legs I'd Kick You" | Watch Video Australian-born actress Rose Byrne earned an Academy Award nomination for her powerful performance in the drama "If I Had Legs I'd Kick You," playing a mother stretched to the limits. She talks with correspondent Tracy Smith about playing a woman losing all sense of control. Byrne also discusses her early years in Hollywood and the help she received from fellow Aussie Heath Ledger; and how she branched off from working in dramas like the TV series "Damages," to comedies like "Bridesmaids."
WEB EXCLUSIVE: Extended interview - Rose Byrne (Video)
To watch a trailer for "If I Had Legs I'd Kick You" click on the video player below:
HARTMAN: How one mailman handled with extreme care (Video) For the past 33 years, mailman Joe DiTore has truly delivered for the residents of Demarest, New Jersey, as a helpful hand and watchful eye to everyone on his route. And now that he is retiring, the people on DiTore's route shared with Steve Hartman some of the many ways he was a source of comfort and inspiration.
BOOKS: Norah O'Donnell on "We the Women," about the unsung heroines of America | Watch Video In her new book, "We the Women," CBS News' Norah O'Donnell tells the overlooked stories of women who have helped shape our nation, from the single female whose name appears on the Declaration of Independence, to the first Black woman to argue a case before the Supreme Court. O'Donnell talks with correspondent Mo Rocca about being shocked by how much she didn't know of these women's contributions; the role of women in journalism today; and why she is optimistic about the future.
READ AN EXCERPT: "We the Women" by Norah O'Donnell
HEADLINES: Small business owners scramble from Trump's tariffs whiplash (Video) On Friday the Supreme Court declared that most of the tariffs enacted by President Trump – a key part of his economic agenda – are unconstitutional. Trump responded by imposing even more tariffs, as high as 15 percent, on most imports from around the globe. Jo Ling Kent talks with one small business owner who has been driven near bankruptcy by the president's tax decrees.
NATURE: Whitetail deer in New York (Video) We leave you this Sunday with White-tailed deer foraging in the Genesee Valley near Rochester, New York. Videographer: Carl Mrozek.
FROM THE ARCHIVES: Robert Duvall (Video) Academy Award-winning actor Robert Duvall died on Feb. 15, 2026 at the age of 95. In this June 25, 2006 "Sunday Morning" profile, the star of such classics as "The Godfather," "Apocalypse Now," and the TV miniseries "Lonesome Dove" talked with Rita Braver about his career, including the early days hanging out with Gene Hackman and Dustin Hoffman; his Oscar-winning performance as a country singer in "Tender Mercies"; and his love of westerns. He even gave a visiting reporter an impromptu tango lesson.
FROM THE ARCHIVES: Jesse Jackson's political movement (YouTube Video) Social justice activist The Rev. Jesse Jackson died on Feb. 17, 2026 at age 84. Watch these "Sunday Morning" reports from the 1980s chronicling the Chicago minister as he ran twice for the presidency, while raising a voice for those often unheard in the political process. Included:
GALLERY: Notable deaths in 2026 "Sunday Morning" looks back at the esteemed personalities who left us this year, who'd touched us with their innovation, creativity and humanity.
MARATHON: UFOs and aliens (YouTube Video) "The truth is out there" - maybe! Watch these "Sunday Morning" stories about the public fascination with UFO sightings and alleged alien visitations; theories about secrets hidden in Roswell, N.M.; and the search for extraterrestrial life. Featured:
MARATHON: A love letter to New York City (YouTube Video) From Manhattan to the Bronx, "CBS Sunday Morning" wanders the streets of the Big Apple.
The Emmy Award-winning "CBS News Sunday Morning" is broadcast on CBS Sundays beginning at 9:00 a.m. ET. Executive producer is Rand Morrison.
"Sunday Morning": About us
DVR Alert! Find out when "Sunday Morning" airs in your city
"Sunday Morning" also streams on the CBS News app beginning at 11:00 a.m. ET. ( Download it here .)
Full episodes of "Sunday Morning" are now available to watch on demand on CBSNews.com, CBS.com and Paramount+ , including via Apple TV, Android TV, Roku, Chromecast, Amazon FireTV/FireTV stick and Xbox.
Follow us on Twitter/X ; Facebook ; Instagram ; YouTube ; TikTok ; Bluesky ; and at cbssundaymorning.com .
You can also download the free "Sunday Morning" audio podcast at iTunes and at Play.it . Now you'll never miss the trumpet!
Do you have sun art you wish to share with us? Email your suns to SundayMorningSuns@cbsnews.com.
© 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.