article_id: cbs_177
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/losangeles/news/beverly-grove-house-fire-man-killed/
title: Elderly man dies after West Los Angeles house fire
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 24, 2026 / 8:42 PM PST / CBS LA
A man is dead after an early morning fire at a home in the West Los Angeles neighborhood of Beverly Grove, according to authorities.
In a news release , the Los Angeles Fire Department said crews responded to reports of a house fire at a single-family home on the 800 block of North Crescent Heights Boulevard, one block north of Melrose Avenue, at about 4:03 a.m. Tuesday.
An 85-year-old woman managed to escape the flame-infested home and tell firefighters there was another person inside once they arrived. Crews immediately launched a rescue operation while taking an offensive position on the fire, the LAFD said.
After battling what the LAFD called "extensive access challenges," firefighters managed to find an 85-year-old man inside.
The man, who remains unidentified publicly, was rushed to a local hospital in grave condition, where he later died. Paramedics also took his wife to the hospital for smoke inhalation.
The fire was extinguished after about 42 minutes, the LAFD said. No cause has been determined.
Rabbi Yossi Dalfin, who lives next door, said his 85-year-old neighbor was born in France and former member of the Israeli army.
"He was resilient," Dalfin said. "He came here from a different country and built a life for himself, and very proud of what he accomplished."
Neighbor Jonathan Owens, who lives across the street, said he would see the man from time to time.
"He was a super nice guy, real social," Owens said. "Very happy, happy guy. Breaks my heart."
Dalfin, who is a rabbi at Chabad of West Hollywood West, said he is working with his temple to see what resources are available to help the widow.
"We're going to make sure the rest of her life," Dalfin said. "She has a proper setup to be able to live as best as she can."
No additional details were immediately made available.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.