article_id: cbs_182
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/minnesota/news/minnesota-2026-legislative-session-starts-remembrance-melissa-mark-hortman/
title: Minnesota's 2026 legislative session starts with remembrance of Melissa and Mark Hortman
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 17, 2026 / 7:10 PM CST / CBS Minnesota
The Minnesota Legislature on Tuesday convened at the state capitol for a somber start to the 2026 legislative session—the first without the late Rep. Melissa Hortman in more than 20 years.
Lawmakers put official business aside and instead paid tribute to Hortman and her husband, Mark, who were both assassinated inside their home on June 14, 2025, in a stunning act of political violence .
Gov. Tim Walz and legislative leaders shared reflections about their lives and legacies and made appeals to bridge partisan divides as the Legislature began its work for the year.
"The way you honor Melissa and Mark is how we conduct ourselves afterwards. It's one thing to be reflective of the past and tell stories of the past—it's another to say, what did we learn from that?" Walz told a joint meeting of the House and Senate.
All of the details of the commemoration were deliberate: therapy dogs to brighten the day because the Hortmans trained service dogs and adored their golden retriever, Gilbert; seed packets for lawmakers and guests to plant flowers, since Melissa Hortman loved to garden; and a reception with cake and bread, the couple's favorites to bake.
The opening prayer was that of St. Francis of Assisi, which the former speaker kept on a card in her wallet.
"It begins 'Lord make me an instrument of your peace,'" said House DFL Leader Zack Stephenson, who has known Melissa Hortman since he was 17. "She was so smart, so talented, she could have had great success in the private sector. But at every turn she prioritized service."
The Coon Rapids legislator recalled the policies Hortman shaped while serving in the Legislature, including paid family and medical leave and universal free meals for kids, which he noted will endure for years to come.
"Melissa's legacy will reverberate through generations," he said.
Tuesday also marked the return of Sen. John Hoffman after he and his wife, Yvette, were shot a combined 17 times the night of the attacks. The chamber warmly welcomed him back with a standing ovation following his triumphant walk up steps and through the front doors — a goal Hoffman said he set for the first day of session while recovering in the ICU last summer.
"I return changed, Mr. President, but not deterred — more convinced than ever that leadership is measured not by how we respond when everything is going right, but how we respond in our hardest hours," Hoffman said. "Members, let's rise above the noise and let us govern with humility and let us prove through our actions, not just words, that democracy is stronger than fear."
House Speaker Lisa Demuth, a Republican, shared how Melissa Hortman emulated an inclusive style of leadership. When Demuth first became minority leader, Hortman invited her to weekly meetings and "never dismissed" her perspective, despite their political differences.
"We built something that has become too far and too rare in politics. We built a relationship that was rooted in respect," said House Speaker Lisa Demuth, R-Cold Spring. "Through tough negotiations and heated debates, Melissa and I could always look across the table and know that regardless of our differences, we both wanted what was going to be best for Minnesota."
Republicans and Democrats again must find compromise in a divided Legislature in order to pass any legislation. Both sides have a lengthy to-do list that includes proposals like measures to address gun violence following the Annunciation Catholic Church shooting last August and the surge of federal immigration agents which resulted in the death of two U.S. citizens.
Each member placed a rose on Hortman's desk as they exited when the ceremony concluded. There will be an ongoing tribute to her there throughout the session, which both legislative leaders say they hope will serve as a reminder to all lawmakers about how to treat each other.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.