article_id: cbs_218
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/baltimore/news/school-superintendent-myriam-rogers-retire-2026-maryland/
title: Baltimore County Superintendent Myriam Rogers to retire after 2026 school year
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 26, 2026 / 7:12 PM EST / CBS Baltimore
Baltimore County Superintendent Myriam Rogers will retire following the 2026 school year, she announced Thursday.
The change will be effective on July 1, 2026. Her contract does not end until July 2027, the Baltimore Banner reported . According to an email she sent to parents, Rogers said the decision came "after thoughtful reflection and conversations with my family and loved ones."
"I'm a mom of four kids, and that is absolutely my greatest accomplishment," Rogers said. "They are my greatest joy, and I have a daughter who's going into her senior year of high school, and I have an adorable, amazing grandchild that I can't wait to spend time with."
Rogers has led the district since 2023 after taking over for Darryl Williams, who did not renew his contract.
"I thought it was very important to give enough notice because the students in BCPS deserve that, you know, they're doing a real good job and moving in the right direction, and I want nothing to take away from that," Rogers said Thursday. "I want them to keep moving forward."
Rogers began her career as a chemistry teacher at Woodlawn High School in 1996 and returned to the county in 2020 after nearly two decades in educational administration.
"I am humbled by the privilege to have begun and concluded my career serving Team BCPS, and I am confident that I am leaving the system strategically positioned for continued success," she said in a statement.
She began her first year as superintendent with nearly 100% staffing levels. She started as superintendent at a time when county leaders were raising concerns about low teacher morale, disciplinary issues, and declining student achievement.
During her first year as superintendent , Rogers saw improvements in elementary reading literacy and math scores and a decrease in absenteeism.
"We've done amazing work, but I think the most important, the data point I'll point to is chronic absenteeism," Rogers said.
She also led the district in addressing student cellphone usage with a pilot program that restricted usage to reduce distractions and disruptions.
Rogers came under fire in April 2025 after the Maryland Inspector General for Education found that she may have violated a relocation requirement in her contract by living outside of the county.
The report found that Rogers was not listed as an occupant of the apartment address she provided to the district.
Rogers defended her record and her residency , calling the report a distraction.
Baltimore County Board of Education Chair Jane Lichter and Vice Chair Robin Harvey thanked Rogers for her service, leadership and commitment in a joint statement.
"In just three years, thanks to her steady and responsive leadership, we have stopped the decade-long achievement decline, improved student outcomes, and moved our system forward," the statement read. "She has worked relentlessly to dismantle barriers to student success and close opportunity and achievement gaps by implementing coordinated, multi-pronged strategies."
"BCPS is undoubtedly better because of her vision," they added.
Maryland Congressman Johnny Olszewski commended Rogers for her partnership and leadership during his time as county executive, saying they worked to streamline the school budget and advance school safety initiatives.
"For more than three decades, Dr. Myriam Rogers has dedicated her life to expanding opportunity for students in public schools across Maryland," Olszewski said. "From the chemistry classroom to the principal's office and as superintendent, she led with an unwavering commitment to the success of the students, families and educators she served."
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.