article_id: cbs_219
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/newyork/news/nyc-public-schools-tuesday-decision/
title: NYC Public Schools will be open and in person Tuesday, Mayor Mamdani announces
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 24, 2026 / 7:04 AM EST / CBS New York
New York City Public Schools will be back in session as normal Tuesday, Mayor Zohran Mamdani announced on Monday afternoon.
His decision has drawn the ire of some elected officials and residents.
"I hope our students enjoy their snow day today, and stay warm and safe throughout, but I do have some tough news to share. School will be in person tomorrow. You can still pelt me with snowballs when you see me," Mamdani said.
"I'm pleased to announce that based on clear guidance and clear assessment of conditions, all schools will be fully open and operational tomorrow," Schools Chancellor Kamar Samuels said. "The team efforts have been nothing short of extraordinary. Normal programming and extracurricular activities will resume.
"I hope everyone had a good extended holiday break," Samuels added. "It's OK for you to pelt me as well."
Mamdani has been asked repeatedly to reconsider, especially by officials from hard-hit Staten Island, but so far as refused to change his mind.
Spokesperson Dora Pekec said schools "are critical to the stability, health, and wellness of nearly 900,000 young New Yorkers. Whether through a warm meal, essential mental health supports or child care during the day for working families, in-person schooling is a lifeline for many New Yorkers. Keeping our doors open whenever possible will always be a focus of our city's efforts."
The United Federation of Teachers urged its members to be cautious during their return.
"The mayor announced this afternoon that schools will be in person tomorrow. The snow is forecasted to stop, and the city says that snow removal will continue throughout the night to clear the roads by morning. We know tomorrow's commute may pose a real challenge for some of our members. No one should jeopardize their safety trying to report to work," the teachers union posted on social media . "Although the city has the final say in decisions like these, we are part of a strong union, and you are protected. Make the decision that is best for you and your family tomorrow. Your safety comes first."
A petition on Change.org had drawn tens of thousands of signatures asking for the mayor to reconsider and have classes be held remotely. City Councilmembers Frank Morano and Phil Wong were among those asking for the decision to be reconsidered.
"Staten Islanders have lived through the blizzards of 1996 and 2016," Morano said. "We know what a true dig-out storm looks like. This is one of them."
"We have plow trucks that have problems turning into these narrow streets because the snow is there and they have not been cleared, and that means the school buses won't be able to maneuver tomorrow," said Wong, who represents Queens.
Morano said his office has gotten calls from parents and teachers expressing safety concerns.
"Staten Island is not Manhattan," Morano said. "We are a car-dependent borough with hills, narrow residential streets, and long travel distances to schools. When streets are not fully cleared, safety becomes a serious concern."
Added Borough President Vito Fossella, "Staten Island is completely inundated. Numerous roads are impassable, and people have to walk in the middle of the street because the sidewalks are completely blocked by at least 2 feet of snow."
The city said Monday night it's sending additional resources to the borough.
"We dispatched 65 additional pieces of equipment, specialized plows, and hired equipment to come into Staten Island to get everybody moving and to get those roads clear," Department of Sanitation Deputy Commissioner Joshua Goodman said.
The decision follows the first traditional snow day New York City Public School students have had in years during the intense nor'easter that socked the Tri-State Area . The snow day was made possible thanks to the city being granted a waiver from the state.
Under state law, New York City is required to provide 180 days of classroom instruction. With all of the holidays already on the school calendar, there's no wiggle room for snow days without a waiver from the state, lest the city be in violation of the law, Mamdani previously explained.
Monday's snow day came amid a since-ended travel ban and on the heels of public school students having a week off, so there was concern about students having the correct equipment for remote learning.
The Archdiocese of New York also said schools in Manhattan and the Bronx will reopen Tuesday, and schools on Staten Island will remain closed. The Diocese of Brooklyn said its schools in Brooklyn and Queens will be remote.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.