article_id: cbs_269
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/colorado/news/abandoned-mother-puppies-reunited-cbs-colorado-article-adoption/
title: Abandoned mother and puppies reunited after rescuers say CBS article led to adoption
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
February 12, 2026 / 6:47 PM MST / CBS Colorado
A dog and her puppies, found neglected and abandoned in the southern Denver metro area last summer, now have forever homes. Their new owners say a CBS Colorado article played a role in their adoption and reunion.
GreySea the Golden Retriever didn't know it, but she would be reunited with two of her puppies on Tuesday. Monte and Carlo were, like her, abandoned after alleged abuse.
"They were scared and cold, and we immediately put them in the bath because they were actually brown, not cream, when we found them. And we gave them a quick shower and realized they were super skittish and scared," said Cindy Dassinger Vasilas, who adopted the two puppies .
GreySea's story was similar. The Parker Police Department found her, along with one of her six-month-old puppies, dumped near the Pioneer Elementary parking lot. Her new owners saw her in an article on CBSColorado.com.
"The CBS Colorado story popped up about GreySea and one of her offspring, and they were abandoned at an elementary school in Parker. And I just it just broke my heart," said Michael Bell.
"She was there and in a cage, you know, you can see in her face, she's just, she was hurting and scared to death," Cheryl Bell said. "And it just, nothing but tears. I said, 'We got to go get her.'"
The puppy with GreySea was sent to another rescue while the Bells waited for the dogs to be put up for adoption. As soon as she became available, they rushed to pick GreySea up and bring her home.
Dassinger Vasilas discovered Monte and Carlo wandering not far from the area where their mother and brother had been found. Thanks to a Facebook page connecting the dots, the proud new pet parents made contact with each other.
On Tuesday, the trio saw each other again for the first time since they were rescued. Now the rescues are getting a second chance at life.
"I feel like today that all of everything is coming together. I feel like, I think that we're extended family," Dassinger Vasilas said .
Now GreySea will have regular play dates with her pups and, in her newest chapter, she's a mother again.
"She's got this very strong maternal instinct that we found, and so 10 days ago, we got her a puppy. She's got herself a little Mountain Cur that she plays with pretty much nonstop," Michael Bell said.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.