article_id: cbs_280
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/baltimore/news/howard-county-roommate-stabbing-arrest-maryland/
title: Man arrested for fatally stabbing roommate with sword in Howard County
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 23, 2026 / 6:21 PM EST / CBS Baltimore
A man was arrested Sunday after Howard County police said he fatally stabbed his roommate with a sword during an altercation in Columbia.
Donavan Townsend, 23, faces charges in connection with the murder of 25-year-old Jaelon Minor, officers said. He is being held without bond.
Police responded to the incident around 1:40 a.m. on Sunday at an apartment in the 7600 block of Woodpark Lane.  Officers arrived to find Minor, who was pronounced dead inside the apartment.
Jaelon Minor's mother was at the apartment when her son was stabbed during a dispute with Townsend, according to charging documents obtained by WJZ. The two were longtime acquaintances.
Police said there was an ongoing dispute over finances. The argument escalated after Townsend allegedly disrespected Minor's mother.
Investigators said Townsend took off after allegedly stabbing Minor with a sword. Townsend was located and was arrested a short time later.
Anyone with information about this fatal stabbing is asked to call police at 410-313-STOP or email HCPDCrimeTips@howardcountymd.gov .
A neighbor told WJZ she woke up around 1:30 a.m. on Sunday to flashing lights outside her Columbia apartment.
Tiffany Clark said cops and ambulances were at the complex.
"It was scary," Clark said. "People were out here crying."
A neighbor who did not want to be identified said that Minor was a nice young man who was known for helping others around the apartment complex.
"He was a nice person, he went to school with my daughter, he was always pleasant," the neighbor said. "One time I had problems with my truck and he came and he helped me. He's a very helpful, loving person."
In 2025, Howard County reported a total of 12 homicides, up nearly 9% from 11 cases in 2024, according to data from county police.
In early February, a Howard County man was charged with fatally stabbing his estranged wife. Alexander Stephenson , 53, was charged with murder and assault after he turned himself in.
Police said Alexander Stephenson killed Amethyst Stephenson at a home in the 3400 block of Huntsman Run in Ellicott City. Amethyst Stephenson's son called the police after he awoke to "a commotion and yelling' from his mother's room, according to officials.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.