article_id: cbs_292
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/baltimore/news/maryland-lawmakers-congress-trumps-state-of-the-union-van-hollen-delaney/
title: Some Maryland lawmakers in Congress boycott Trump's State of the Union
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 24, 2026 / 10:32 PM EST / CBS Baltimore
Some Democrats in Congress, including those from Maryland, boycotted President Trump's State of the Union address on Tuesday night.
Maryland Rep. April McClain Delaney and Maryland Sen. Chris Van Hollen said they planned to join other members of Congress at the "People's State of the Union" event at the National Mall in Washington, D.C., instead. Rep. Kweisi Mfume also said he wouldn't be attending.
The lawmakers say the administration's "destructive" and "lawless" actions against Marylanders were just a couple reasons why they skipped the president's speech.
"I have determined that my presence at the State of the Union would not meaningfully serve my constituents in Maryland's Sixth District," McClain Delaney stated. "The President's destructive and lawless actions over the past year have harmed Marylanders–making life less affordable, undermining food security and their access to healthcare, and devastating family farms and small businesses across our region."
The Maryland lawmakers said they boycotted over "illegal mass firings" of federal workers; "reckless trade wars" that impacted the state; denying Maryland FEMA funding for historic flooding in Western Maryland; public criticism aimed at Gov. Wes Moore; and immigration policies, including plans to build an ICE detention facility in Washington County.
"I will continue fighting their destructive policies at every turn," McClain Delaney said. "At the same time, I am working with local and state leaders to restore trust, solve problems, and advance practical solutions that improve affordability and strengthen our communities."
Rep. Mfume posted on social media that he would not attend Trump's State of the Union for the second year in a row, saying that the president and his ego "have failed to lead and have severely injured the official state of the union."
"Donald Trump has hurt hard working American citizens and diminished our respect on the world stage," Mfume added.
Maryland Sen. Angela Alsobrooks confirmed on Tuesday that she would not be at the president's State of the Union.
"Our country has been thrust into an accountability and affordability crisis through the cruelty, lawlessness, and greed of this President and his Administration," Alsobrooks stated. "I will not dignify his actions with my presence."
Maryland Rep. Glenn Ivey said he skipped the speech to "stand with Mohamed Alghali, a young man from Maryland whose life was turned upside down when his mother was forcibly deported."
"His story is a painful reminder of the plight of that Black immigrants under Donald Trump," Ivey added.
Many members of Congress opted to attend the "People's State of the Union" at the National Mall at the same time as the president's address.
Sen. Van Hollen spoke at the rally, while being joined by Jenna Norton. Norton, a Marylander, is a public health scientist and Program Director at the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
According to Van Hollen, Norton had a "front row seat to unethical, unlawful, and harmful actions by the Trump administration at the NIH."
Maryland Rep. Johnny Olszewski, a Democrat, attended Trump's State of the Union, joined by his guest, Carroll County resident Michael Zabetakis.
Zabetakis is a retired electrical engineering technician from Hampstead. According to Olszewski's office, Zabetakis is facing a $12,000 annual increase in health insurance premiums following the expiration of enhanced Affordable Care Act (ACA) tax credits.
Zabetakis said his monthly premium soared from $500 in 2025 to $1,500 this year, Olszewski's office said.
"I want the President to see Michael sitting in the gallery as someone representing millions of Americans who did everything right but are now being forced to shoulder crushing healthcare costs – all because he and Republican leadership in Congress failed to act," Olszewski said. "I want President Trump to see there are real people who worked hard, paid taxes, and played by the rules but are being left behind by his Administration. While the ultra-wealthy get massive tax breaks, retirees are forced to choose between financial stability and access to a doctor."
"Losing our ACA credits was a significant hit against our retirement spending, especially on top of the high cost of groceries and the electric bill," Zabetakis said. "Our premiums tripled overnight. That's money that was supposed to go toward enjoying our retirement and time with our family. Instead, it's going to insurance bills. Americans like me are not asking for special treatment. We're asking for stability and fairness."
Maryland Rep. Sarah Elfreth, a Democrat, also attended the State of the Union, with State Speaker of the House Joseline Peña-Melnyk as her guest.
Rep. Jamie Raskin, a Democrat, attended with guests Sky and Amanda Roberts, who are family members of Virginia Giuffre. Guiffre was one of the most outspoken accusers and survivors of sex offender Jeffrey Epstein before her death in 2025.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.