article_id: cbs_311
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/chicago/candace-clark/
title: Candace Clark
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Clark, 52, is serving a five-year prison sentence on six felony convictions, including theft by deception and impersonating a state employee.
Just days before her trial had been scheduled to begin earlier this month, Clark agreed to a plea deal on the six felony charges she had been facing.
Clark has now pleaded guilty to five counts of theft by deception and one count of impersonating a state employee.
Accused serial scammer Candace Clark got evicted from another home while awaiting trial for theft and fake ID charges.
She faces six felony charges: One for impersonating a state employee and five for theft by deception.
Candace Clark is a serial con artist, who has been scamming people for years.  CBS 2 Investigator Dorothy Tucker has been tracking Clark's moves.
After accused serial scammer Candace Clark rejected a plea deal that would have seen her sentenced to 4 ½ years in prison, a Cook County judge scheduled a jury trial for April 18.
Another delay for accused serial scammer Candace Clark, who did not show up for her latest court date on Monday, after she was hospitalized with COVID symptoms.
Cook County prosecutors are negotiating a possible plea agreement with accused serial scammer Candace Clark, whose story CBS 2 Investigator Dorothy Tucker has been following for more than two years.
There were new developments Wednesday in the case of accused serial scammer Candace Clark – whose story CBS 2 Investigator Dorothy Tucker has been following for more than two years.
Accused serial scammer Candace Clark ran into yet another phone problem during a virtual court hearing on Monday.
She said her camera wouldn't work. Her audio was fine, but the judge was not pleased. Last month, he almost issued an arrest warrant for her because she didn't show up to another Zoom hearing.
Stories by the CBS 2 Investigators led to the arrest of Candace Clark, who is accused of scamming some of Chicago's most vulnerable people – and now her case is moving forward in court.
Remember Candace Clark, the accused serial scammer at the heart of many of our CBS 2 investigations? She was back in court on Thursday.
After a months-long CBS 2 Investigation into Candace Clark – accused, among other things, of living in upscale places without paying rent – we got a tip about a high-rolling power couple also living in upscale condos without paying rent.
Accused serial scam artist Candace Clark had been expected to be released from the Cook County Jail Thursday, but she was not.
Accused serial scammer Candace Clark had been expected to appear for a bond hearing Saturday, but she did not end up appearing as she was hospitalized after complaining of chest pains.
"It's very painful," said Hadera. "I hope they lock her up forever."
More people are telling us their tales of losing thousands of dollars in an elaborate Chicago Charade.
A charismatic thief planning an elaborate con game to steal people's money – it sounds like the plot of a Hollywood smash.
A Chicago man has been charged with a string of burglaries targeting video gambling terminals at businesses in Chicago's southwest suburbs.
An 11-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by three juveniles on Chicago's Near South Side this week.
A woman was held up by gun-wielding robbers in Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood early Thursday morning.
Two women are dead in Pennsylvania and a man is dead in Illinois, after an apparent murder-suicide, police said.
Chicago police on Wednesday warned of a string of charity scam incidents in the on the Near West and South sides in recent weeks.
Burglars stole an ATM from a bar in Chicago's Little Village neighborhood early Wednesday morning.
Burglars stole an ATM from a bar in Little Village early Tuesday. Meanwhile, burglars busted into a pizzeria in the Archer Heights neighborhood.
Burglars made off with thousands of dollars early Wednesday after breaking into a pizzeria on Chicago's Southwest Side.
At least eight dogs were missing Tuesday, after someone stole a van that was shuttling them back and forth to a boarding facility in Indiana.
From midnight raids to shootings, Kristi Noem, who was ousted as DHS secretary by Trump today, was at the center of many of the controversies of Operation Midway Blitz in Chicago.
The announcement comes amid criticism of DHS spending under Noem, and as Congress has allowed the department's funding to lapse.
Federal prosecutors are dropping their probe into whether Biden and his aides unlawfully used an autopen for pardons, a source said.
Several Republicans on the Oversight panel joined with Democrats in supporting the motion to subpoena Attorney General Pam Bondi.
Former presidents Bill Clinton, Barack Obama and Joe Biden are among the big names who will be in Chicago Friday for Rev. Jesse Jackson's funeral.
Drivers in the Chicago area can expect to start paying more at the pump this week, as oil prices have spiked amid the U.S.-Israeli war on Iran.
Palatine, Illinois-based Weber has issued a recall of more than 3.2 million metal wire bristle grill brushes because you could ingest the bristles.
This is after Mayor Brandon Johnson vetoed an ordinance that would have banned most hemp-derived products this weekend.
This week marks Identity Theft Awareness Week, and Illinois Comptroller Susana Mendoza emphasized some safety tips Monday for avoiding and dealing with identity theft.
A controversial data center in Naperville, Illinois, could be the cause to pack a city council meeting there on Tuesday night.
When a doctor was told there was no cure for his daughter's condition, he was motivated to transform not only her health, but the lives of thousands of others.
Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital announced this week that it is planning to open a new pediatric hospital in the west Chicago suburb of Downers Grove.
It has been nearly six years since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, and one of the many questions doctors are still working to answer concerns the long-term effects.
Leaders from Cook County, the Illinois Department of Human Services, and the Greater Chicago Food Depository denounced changes to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program on Wednesday.
The University of Chicago Medicine Comprehensive Cancer Center has received a grant from The Ralph Lauren Corporate Foundation for a new cancer center.
Capital One is laying off more than 1,100 workers at the former Discover headquarters in north suburban Riverwoods.
A new development at the southeast corner of Chicago's East Lakeview community would clear away a medical office building and replace it with a residential high-rise.
The City of Aurora, Illinois, is seeking input from residents about data center​ development.
Not one, but two hotels are now planned or proposed for Chicago's Northalsted LGBTQ+ nightlife district.
After the Double Door closed in Wicker Park, there was reassurance that the Double Door would return, at a new location in the city's Uptown neighborhood. Now that is not happening anymore.
Actor and filmmaker Bruce Campbell told fans that he is in treatment for cancer and will cancel some upcoming public appearances.
Singer-songwriter Neil Sedaka, known for his hits like "Laughter in the Rain," "Breaking Up is Hard to Do" and "Calendar Girl," has died.
A 19th-century George Méliès film, thought to be long lost, has been found among a box of brittle movie reels​ that a Michigan donor brought to the Library of Congress, officials said.
Streaming giant Netflix declined to match Paramount Skydance's $31 per share offer for Warner Bros. Discovery.
After the Double Door closed in Wicker Park, there was reassurance that the Double Door would return, at a new location in the city's Uptown neighborhood. Now that is not happening anymore.
The ads are everywhere, and the clock is ticking down to the primary elections in Illinois. Political insiders are sharing what they're watching for as Illinois voters cast ballots for governor, senator and dozens of other races.
Capital One is laying off more than 1,100 workers at the former Discover headquarters in north suburban Riverwoods.
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem has been removed from her role amid criticism of spending and continued backlash over heavy-handed immigration enforcement tactics. A lot of people in Illinois have applauded her removal.
Dr. Shantay Bolton is the new president of Columbia College in Chicago, the first Black woman and first woman in nearly 90 years to lead the school.
From midnight raids to shootings, Kristi Noem, who was ousted as DHS secretary by Trump today, was at the center of many of the controversies of Operation Midway Blitz in Chicago.
Reaction from local leaders to news that Kristi Noem had been ousted as head of DHS was swift and savage.
Illinois' political deck is getting shuffled in ways never seen before in 2026, with three members of Congress stepping down after each has served nearly 30 years on Capitol Hill.
A pilot was killed in a small plane crash in Deerfield, Illinois, Wednesday night.
Capital One is laying off more than 1,100 workers at the former Discover headquarters in north suburban Riverwoods.
The San Francisco 49ers are hiring former Chicago Bears head coach Matt Eberflus as a defensive assistant on coach Kyle Shanahan's staff.
A proposed Illinois law hopes to create more oversight on private companies to protect consumers from skyrocketing utility prices.
The three women said they are working to make their way back home, but without any help from the U.S. State Department.
If you feel like you're drowning in a sea of text alerts and desperate email pleas for "just $5" this election season, you are far from alone.
A north suburban school bus driver became a victim of sophisticated scammers who are targeting more people and more vulnerable populations to make more money.
Both couples are still actively fighting for their kids, knowing it will be a long and complicated road.
The San Francisco 49ers are hiring former Chicago Bears head coach Matt Eberflus as a defensive assistant on coach Kyle Shanahan's staff.
The Chicago Bears are in discussions with the Buffalo Bills to finalize a trade that sends Moore to the AFC East, according to CBS NFL insider Jonathan Jones.
Northwestern was in control before Purdue got back in the game with a 9-0 run in the second half.
Last-place Loyola Chicago came in shooting just 31% on 3s, but kept it close by outscoring the nation's top 3-point shooting team by nine from behind the arc.
Holtz coached Notre Dame from 1986 to 1996, winning 100 games with the school, including a 12-0 national title-winning season in 1988.
A Chicago man has been charged with a string of burglaries targeting video gambling terminals at businesses in Chicago's southwest suburbs.
An 11-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by three juveniles on Chicago's Near South Side this week.
A woman was held up by gun-wielding robbers in Chicago's Lincoln Park neighborhood early Thursday morning.
Two women are dead in Pennsylvania and a man is dead in Illinois, after an apparent murder-suicide, police said.
Chicago police on Wednesday warned of a string of charity scam incidents in the on the Near West and South sides in recent weeks.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.