article_id: cbs_320
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/team/tom-wait/
title: Tom  Wait
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Tom Wait is CBS LA's Political Reporter but his assignments often go beyond politics. He frequently covers breaking news and other major events impacting communities across Southern California.
Tom earned an Emmy as part of a CBS California Special Investigation that focused on campaign donations in local school board races.
Since joining the station in 2013 Tom has reported on some of Southern California's biggest stories - including the pandemic, the Hollywood actor and writer's strikes and the devastating fires that ravaged the Pacific Palisades and Altadena.
Tom has deep roots in Southern California. He grew up in Claremont and graduated from Claremont High School. He earned is undergraduate degree from the University of California, Berkeley, and then earned a Master's in Journalism at New York University.
Before joining CBS Los Angeles, Tom worked as a reporter at News 12 The Bronx and News 12 Brooklyn, KCTV, Kansas City, MO and in Detroit, Michigan at WXYZ.
In an exclusive interview with CBS LA's Tom Wait, California Gov. Gavin Newsom discussed the upcoming elections, Los Angeles wildfires and the Department of Homeland Security.
The LAUSD board recessed after meeting behind closed doors for roughly four hours.
Yaoning "Mike" Sun, 64, worked on Arcadia Mayor Eileen Wang's campaign. The pair were dating before he was charged by the Department of Justice.
The Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday will consider a motion that would increase the sales tax by a half-cent in order to cover the massive healthcare funding cuts made by the Trump administration.
Rick Caruso, the runner-up in the Los Angeles Mayoral race four years ago, announced he will not pursue elected office at this time.
House Republicans published the findings of their investigation into how the FireAid funds were spent.
Mayor Karen Bass discusses rebuilding efforts in the Palisades Fire zone and shares what she regrets about the disaster.
Gina Clayton-Johnson is hopeful that Attorney General Rob Bonta will not only seek justice but also lead an investigation that will help prevent similar fire disasters in the future.
Sae Joon Park self-deported to South Korea after he was issued a removal order related to 15-year-old drug possession charges.
Nearly a year after the Eaton Fire ripped through Altadena, destroying thousands of buildings and homes and killing at least 19 people, the Edison International president is addressing the devastating blaze and the company's work to help victims.
Lawyers representing Palisades Fire victims released new photos and evidence, which they claim show state officials hampering efforts to put out the Lachman Fire.
Mayor Karen Bass urged the Los Angeles City Council to allocate $4.4 million for the LAPD to hire 410 more officers.
Orange County residents packed into a Monday night meeting to learn more about the plan to reopen California's coast for new oil drilling.
Monterey Park tabled a proposal for a massive data center project after seeing concerned residents pack into the city council chambers.
The Barstow Police Department said its officers will conduct extra patrols around grocery stores as funding for food stamps dries up.
Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.