article_id: cbs_51
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/former-air-force-pilot-arrested-training-chinese-military-pilots-doj-gerald-brown/
title: Former "elite" Air Force pilot who trained Chinese military pilots arrested, DOJ says
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 26, 2026 / 6:08 AM EST / CBS/AFP
The Justice Department announced the arrest Wednesday of a former Air Force fighter pilot who allegedly trained Chinese military personnel without authorization.
Gerald Brown, 65, was arrested in Indiana after recently returning to the United States from China, where he'd been since December 2023, a Justice Department statement said .
He is accused of having "conspired with foreign nationals to provide combat aircraft training to pilots in the Chinese Air Force" without a required license from the U.S. State Department, the statement said.
FBI director Kash Patel posted on social media : "Major story... the FBI and our partners have arrested a former US Air Force Pilot who was allegedly training pilots in the Chinese military."
Assistant Attorney General for National Security John A. Eisenberg said, "The United States Air Force trained Major Brown to be an elite fighter pilot and entrusted him with the defense of our nation. He now stands charged with training Chinese military pilots."
Brown had a 24-year career in the U.S. Air Force during which he "commanded sensitive units with responsibility for nuclear weapons delivery systems, led combat missions, and served as a fighter pilot instructor and simulator instructor on a variety of fighter and attack aircraft," the DOJ said.
He retired from the military in 1996 and worked as a cargo pilot, the statement said, but he later began a role with two U.S. defense contractors training pilots to fly the A-10 and state-of-the-art F-35 fighter jets, according to the statement.
Brown allegedly began negotiating a contract in August 2023 with Stephen Su Bin — a Chinese national who was imprisoned in the U.S. for four years beginning in 2016 over another espionage scheme — and traveled in December 2023 to China to begin his training job.
"The Chinese government continues to exploit the expertise of current and former members of the U.S. armed forces to modernize China's military capabilities," said Roman Rozhavsky, an official with the FBI's Counterintelligence and Espionage Division.
"This arrest serves as a warning that the FBI and our partners will stop at nothing to hold accountable anyone who collaborates with our adversaries to harm our service members and jeopardize our national security," he added.
© 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. Agence France-Presse contributed to this report.
Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.