article_id: cbs_53
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/news/nato-allies-meet-hegseth-trump-europe-canada/
title: NATO allies say Hegseth "missing a good party" as they meet, adjust to slimmed down U.S. role under Trump
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
February 12, 2026 / 9:24 AM EST / CBS/AP
Brussels — European allies at NATO on Thursday brushed aside concerns that the United States has stepped back from its leadership role of the world's biggest security organization, leaving them and Canada to do the lion's share of defending Europe.
U.S. Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth did not attend Thursday's gathering of defense ministers at NATO headquarters in Brussels. His no-show came after Secretary of State Marco Rubio skipped the last meeting of NATO foreign ministers in December.
It's rare for members of a U.S. administration to miss a meeting of the organization's top decision-making body, the North Atlantic Council, at the ministerial level, let alone two meetings in a row.
U.S. Under Secretary of Defense Elbridge Colby was sent in Hegseth's place.
"Sadly for him, he is missing a good party," Icelandic Foreign Minister Þorgerður Katrín Gunnarsdóttir told reporters. "Of course, it's always better that the ministers attend here, but I would not describe it as a bad signal."
"I'm not disappointed," German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said. "Each of us has a full agenda. And one time the American defense minister is here, and one time not, so it's his decision and his duties he has to fulfill."
When asked what NATO's purpose was in its infancy in 1949, NATO's first secretary-general, the British general and diplomat Lord Hastings Ismay, was reputed to have replied: "To keep the Americans in, the Russians out and the Germans down."
Now, Germany is stepping up. After Russia invaded Ukraine four years ago, it vowed to spend $118 billion to modernize its armed forces in coming years.
A big part of NATO Secretary-General Mark Rutte's job is to keep the Americans in.
"They have to take care of the whole world. This is the United States," Rutte told reporters before chairing the meeting. "I totally accept it, agree with it."
"They have always consistently pleaded for Europe doing more, Canada doing more, taking more care of the defense of NATO territory, of course in conjunction with the United States," he said.
That means more European spending on conventional weapons and defense, while the U.S. guarantees NATO's nuclear deterrent.
But doubts linger, and surprises from the Trump administration cannot be ruled out. Allies still wonder whether more U.S. troops will be withdrawn from Europe .
"What for me is the most important is the no-surprise policy that has been agreed between the NATO secretary-general and the U.S.," Dutch Defense Minister Ruben Brekelmans said.
Publicly at least, the Trump administration is doing much less at NATO . A year ago, Hegseth warned that America's security priorities lie elsewhere and that Europe would have to look after itself, and Ukraine in its battle against Russia's full-scale invasion.
Supplies of U.S. guns and money that were sent to Ukraine by the previous administration of former President Joe Biden have dried up under Mr. Trump. European allies and Canada are obliged to buy weapons from the United States to donate now.
Western backers of Ukraine were also meeting at NATO on Thursday to drum up more military support. A scheme proudly championed by the Pentagon under Biden, the Ukraine Defense Contact Group is now chaired by the U.K. and Germany .
U.K. Defense Secretary John Healey announced that Britain would provide "an extra half a billion pounds ($682 million) in urgent air defense to Ukraine. This is Britain being a force for good in the world, building a new deal for European security within NATO."
Sweden also intends to fund the purchase of more American weapons. The Netherlands will send more flight simulators to help Ukrainian fighter pilots train to fly F-16 jets.
The one "deliverable" from Thursday's meeting was the formal announcement that NATO would launch Arctic Sentry , its response to U.S. security concerns in the high north, and an attempt to dissuade Trump from trying to seize Greenland .
It's ostensibly aimed at countering Russian and Chinese activities or influence in the Arctic region.
But Arctic Sentry is essentially a rebranding exercise. National drills already underway in the region, like those run by Denmark and Norway, will be brought under the NATO umbrella and overseen by the organization's military chief. It is not a long-term NATO operation or mission.
Denmark, France, Germany will take part in the "military activities" happening under Arctic Sentry, but they have not said in what way.
Calling the mission "very good news for us," Denmark's Defense Minister Troels Lund Poulsen said Thursday that the country had "made two Arctic packages with money for new Arctic ships, maritime patrol aircraft and strengthened satellite capacity. On top of that, we have entered into an agreement to acquire additional F-35 fighter jets that can be used to solve tasks in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. So, we are fulfilling our responsibility — and it will only get even better under the auspices of NATO's efforts."
Finland and Sweden are also likely to get involved, and Belgium is considering what role it might play.
"As a NATO Ally, Sweden has a responsibility to contribute to the security of the entire territory of the Alliance. The Arctic region is becoming increasingly important from a strategic perspective. Our participation in Arctic Sentry demonstrates that we are a loyal and active Ally that takes responsibility for our common security," Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson said in a statement on Thursday.
It remains unclear what role, if any, the United States will take.
A spokesperson for U.S. Air Force General Alexus Grynkewich, NATO's Supreme Allied Commander in Europe, told CBS News earlier this month that planning was underway for the new Arctic mission, calling it an "enhanced vigilance activity to even further strengthen NATO's posture in the Arctic and High North."
The spokesperson told CBS News that the planning had "only just begun, but details will follow in due course."
"It can't just be more from the United States," U.S. Ambassador to NATO Matthew Whitaker said ahead of Thursday's meeting. "We need capable allies that are ready and strong, that can bring assets to all of these areas of our collective security."
Mr. Trump's renewed threats last month to annex Greenland — a semiautonomous territory of NATO ally Denmark — have deeply shaken the rest of the alliance. NATO's primary role is to defend the territory of its 32 ember states, not to undermine it.
European allies and Canada hope that Arctic Sentry and ongoing talks between the Trump administration, Denmark and Greenland will allow NATO to move on from the dispute and focus on Europe's real security priority, Russia's war on Ukraine.
Belgian Defense Minister Theo Francken said the Arctic security arrangement at least means that "we stop having some food fights over the Atlantic."
"I think that the Greenland saga was not the best moment of NATO (over) the last 76 years," he told reporters. "It was a crisis that was not needed."
© 2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Copyright ©2026 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.