article_id: cbs_81
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/chicago/news/woodstock-willie-does-not-see-shadow-groundhog-day-2026/
title: Woodstock Willie does not see his shadow on Groundhog Day 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 2, 2026 / 11:08 AM CST / CBS Chicago
Woodstock Willie did not see his shadow this Groundhog Day, predicting the arrival of an early spring.
This contradicted the prediction cast by Punxsutawney Phil in Pennsylvania , who saw his shadow and predicted six more weeks of winter.
The whole town of Woodstock, Illinois was ready for Willie's prognostications before Willie was woken up at 7:08 a.m. The crowd anxiously waited around the gazebo in Woodstock Square, while those watching on Facebook Live were likely left biting their nails as the feed went on the fritz and froze.
But CBS Chicago's cameras were there to capture the big moment.
While feels-like temperatures were in the teens in Woodstock on Monday morning, the crowd erupted in a loud burst of cheers at the northwest suburban groundhog's prognostication that it wouldn't last.
"I was so excited," said Lily Adams. "I wore pink for spring, so I was like, spring is coming. I'm so happy."
Adams and her boyfriend, Hayden Hatfield, drove for an hour and crossed state lines for the big reveal.
"She woke me up at 5:20 to get over here to see the groundhog," Hatfield said.
But a meet-and-greet with Woodstock Willie made it worth it.
According to legend, if a ceremonial groundhog — Phil, Willie, Staten Island Chuck in New York, or any of several others — sees his shadow, he interprets it as six more weeks of bad weather and he returns to his hole. If he doesn't see his shadow, he believes it's a sign of spring and he stays above ground.
The 1993 movie "Groundhog Day" starring Bill Murray was set in Punxsutawney, but filmed in Woodstock. Groundhog Day festivities took off in Woodstock in the years after the movie was released, eventually including a real groundhog to make a prediction much like the one in the real Punxsutawney.
Woodstock Willie's predictions are on the books for every year since 1997, though one year, the question of more winter was overshadowed one year by day-of winter concerns. A historic blizzard on Groundhog Day in 2011 forced the ceremony to be called off.
Woodstock Groundhog Days chairman Rick Bellairs was none too disappointed in Woodstock Willie's prediction for this year.
"I was really happy," Bellairs said. "I mean, after the weather we had last week with the minus-20 wind chill and all, I'm ready for spring."
This year, a star of "Groundhog Day" was present for the ceremony, and he even earned a key to the city. Stephen Tobolowsky played Ned Ryerson in the movie — fans will remember he warned Bill Murray's Phil Connors character that the first step off the curb is "always a doozy."
"Stephen's a special guy. This is, I think, his fifth time back to Woodstock for the Groundhog Day festivities. He doesn't have to leave his 80 degrees in Southern California and come, but he loves seeing all the fans, and the meaning of the movie, what it's mean to the fans," Bellairs said. "So this year, Woodstock Mayor Mike Turner presented Stephen Tobolowsky with a key to the city."
Tobolowsky told CBS News Chicago he never expected to keep coming back to Woodstock, Illinois over and over again, but he's none too sorry it's worked out that he has.
"There's something about the place that's haunted. You just can't get away from it. And something about Woodstock Willie and the way he just does his little teeth behind there wanting to come out and see everybody, and the guy who holds Woodstock Willie always promises he won't bite you, and he always does!" Tobolowsky said. "So there are just so many things I love about this place."
Also present for the Groundhog Day celebrations in Woodstock on Monday morning was Bob Hudgins, the location manager for the movie who got to show director Harold Ramis all around Woodstock.
"This is a phenomenon. You can't even plan this. You can't make this happen. I mean, this is organic. People just started showing up, and you know, the city embraced it, and away we go. And it's just gotten bigger and bigger," Hudgins said. "It makes me smile, and I'm thrilled that I'm invited back."
Bellairs also noted that people who weren't even born yet when the movie "Groundhog Day" came out — an age range that includes some full-grown adults these days — are still eager to turn out for the festivities in Woodstock and see the filming sites.
Businesses in Woodstock also see a boom for Groundhog Day.
"It's put the town on the map here in Woodstock that we've been able to carry this tradition on for over 30 years, and really raise the economy, everything for this big weekend — it's just a huge thing," said Amy Humbracht, president of the Woodstock Area Chamber of Commerce & Industry.
Arlene Lynes, owner of Read Between the Lynes Bookstore, called Groundhog Day "close to Christmas" in Woodstock.
"It's such a fabulous day. The town people come out, but I think the favorite part is meeting all the people that can come out not only from around the country, but around the world," Lynes said, noting that visitors have attended from Germany, Spain, Australia, and Russia.
The events in Woodstock for Groundhog Day on Monday included a breakfast at the Moose Lodge, a morning screening of the movie at the Classic Cinemas Woodstock Theatre, a Making of Groundhog Day panel discussion with Hudgins at the Woodstock Opera House, a groundhog wood carving demonstration, a walking tour of filming sites, an opportunity to meet Tobolowsky at the opera house, and a movie memorabilia open house at the Woodstock Public Library.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.