article_id: cbs_84
url: https://www.cbsnews.com/sacramento/news/luke-bryan-farm-tour-elk-grove-mahon-ranch/
title: Luke Bryan adds Elk Grove's Mahon Ranch to Farm Tour 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Updated on:  February 6, 2026 / 10:49 PM PST / CBS Sacramento
A country music megastar is bringing his farm concert series to California this spring, and Elk Grove will be one of the stops.
Luke Bryan's Farm Tour 2026 is set to make three California stops in May, including in Bakersfield and Fresno.
This week, Bryan and local leaders announced that the tour would be making a stop at Elk Grove's Mahon Ranch on May 16.
Sacramento County Supervisor Pat Hume, in a newsletter from his office, noted that they had to work around a county ordinance that was originally put in place decades ago due to the Woodstock Festival.
"You read that correctly: Woodstock," Hume wrote. "Through some creativity and collaboration between agencies, I am confident we are going to welcome a Luke Bryan concert to the region."
Bryan has been holding his Farm Tour concert series since 2010 as a way to give back to the local farming communities he visits.
Mahon Ranch, located along Grant Line Road just east of Highway 99, has been in operation since 1882 and still maintains a herd of about 200 cattle. The ranch has also been used for weddings, brewfests, and a Civil War Days reenactment.
Tickets for Bryan's Elk Grove concert are set to go on sale Feb. 12.
Tom Mahon's family has farmed these 500 acres for more than 140 years, and last fall, he received a call from Bryan's staff with an unexpected offer.
"Somebody said to me, 'How would you like to have a Luke Bryan concert?' " Mahon said.
At first, he thought it was a prank, but it wasn't.
"I couldn't believe it, and I said, 'Yeah, that would be fine,' and they said it will be for about 20,000 people and I said, 'Wow, that seems like a lot of people,' " Mahon said.
He agreed to the idea but then ran into a roadblock when trying to get a permit from Sacramento County due to the county ordinance Hume discussed, which, in the 1960s Flower Power days, prevented selling alcohol at concerts with more than 500 people.
"There was no workaround, there was no exception," Mahon said.
So they've come up with a way around the rules by setting up the concert stage and concessions on a small part of Mahon Ranch that's in the Elk Grove city limits, which doesn't have the same strict booze ban.
About 70 acres of the ranch will be set aside for parking. Hume said the land is so vast that he's not concerned about any community complaints.
"I think the impact is going to be minimal," Hume said.
© 2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.