article_id: guardian_108
url: https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2026/feb/21/good-luck-have-fun-dont-die-tracey-emin-entertainment-guide-week-ahead
title: From Good Luck, Have Fun, Don’t Die to Tracey Emin: your complete entertainment guide to the week ahead
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Good Luck, Have Fun, Don’t Die Out now If Sam Rockwell materialised in an LA diner dressed like something that escaped from an off-Broadway production of Starlight Express, wouldn’t you hear him out? In visionary director Gore Verbinski’s new film, Rockwell plays a man from the future, who has come back to warn us about the perils of artificial intelligence. Sold.
The Moment Out now A couple of weeks after appearing in a small role in 100 Nights of Hero, Charli xcx is back on the big screen as a pop star preparing for her tour while navigating the difficulties that inevitably accompany a stratospheric rise to the top. She is – as they say – the moment.
If I Had Legs I’d Kick You Out now Rose Byrne stars as a therapist dealing with more than her fair share of her own obstacles: her young child is ill, her unsupportive husband is away working and she has a tricky relationship with … you’ve guessed it, her therapist. Byrne won the Silver Bear at the Berlin film festival for her performance in this comedy drama.
The Secret Agent Out now In a rare instance of the best actor and best director prize going to the same film, this acclaimed thriller bagged double prizes at Cannes for star Wagner Moura and director Kleber Mendonça Filho. Set during the Brazilian military dictatorship, it sees Moura play a former academic who must navigate political and personal turbulence. Colourful incidents along the way include an investigation into a leg found inside a shark. Catherine Bray
Portugal. The Man Dublin, 23 February ; Glasgow, 24 February ; Manchester, 25 February ; London, 26 February After scoring an unexpected hit with Feel It Still in 2017, a decade into their career, the Portland-based rockers, led by John Gourley, have continued to chart their own course, releasing their 10th album, Shish, last November. Heavier than their previous efforts, songs such as Denali and Angoon should take on a new life on stage. Michael Cragg
Whitney Dublin, 21 February; Manchester, 22 February; Glasgow, 24 February; Bristol, 26 February; London, 27 February Formed out of the ashes of US rock band and 2010s critical darlings Smith Westerns, across four albums Whitney, AKA Julian Ehrlich and Max Kakacek, have slowed the pace down, taking in fractured indie-folk and creaking chamber pop. Expect hushed reverie during these four shows. MC
Tim Garland/Geoffrey Keezer Kings Place , London, 25 February; Capstone theatre , Liverpool, 26 February; Turner Sims , Southampton, 27 February Tim Garland, the multi-talented British saxophonist and composer, has worked with some superb pianists down the years – not least the late, great Chick Corea and versatile former Art Blakey sideman Geoffrey Keezer. Their remarkable empathy is showcased on this tour, launching the pair’s eloquent new duo album, Mezzo. John Fordham
The Hallé Presents: Jonny Greenwood Bridgewater Hall, Manchester, 26 February Classically trained, the Radiohead guitarist composes concert works and award-winning film scores and is currently a featured artist of the Hallé. He joins them here on electric bass for Greenwood’s own newly revised Violin Concerto, alongside music by Witold Lutosławski and Steve Reich. Flora Wilson
Tracey Emin Tate Modern, London, 27 February to 31 August Britain’s most exciting artist brings her electricity to Tate Modern in what could be an era-defining show. Emin, who started as a punk printmaker and painter with a love of northern expressionism, became one of the most provocative conceptualists of the 1990s … then turned back to painting. This will be mighty.
Jamie Mills Anima Mundi, St Ives, to 22 March This exhibition is called A Firework for Vincent and its homage to Van Gogh proves Emin isn’t the only artist revisiting expressionism. Found materials from Cornwall’s fields and beaches feature alongside abstract wall works and complex, multilayered sculptures with echoes of Rauschenberg and Kiefer. Something to ponder over a pasty.
Arthur Melville Scottish National Gallery, Edinburgh, to 21 June This brilliant watercolourist was one of the most fascinating “Orientalist” artists of late 19th- and early 20th-century Britain. Melville travelled widely in Egypt, Iran, Syria and what is now Pakistan, and his art captures everyday life in cafes and squares in sun-blistered cities. He brought intense new colour to Scottish art.
Delaine Le Bas Whitworth, Manchester, to 31 May The spirits of folklore and countryside ritual return with a vengeance as Le Bas brings her masks and murals into dialogue with artists in the Whitworth collection including William Blake and the apocalyptic John Martin. At the centre of the show is a work she created for the Glastonbury festival. Jonathan Jones
Aisling Bea 27 February to 1 May; tour starts London Despite being a long-term fixture in our comedy firmament (see: regular panel show appearances and excellent Channel 4 series This Way Up), Bea has never actually taken her standup on tour – until now. The 41-year-old’s maiden jaunt, Older Than Jesus, sees her discuss youth, age, motherhood and the concept of home. Rachel Aroesti
This Body festival The Mount Without, Bristol, 25 February to 8 March A new dance festival masterminded by dance company Impermanence and held at their amazing converted-church venue. There’ll be films, performances, cabaret, club nights and workshops, including Karla Shacklock’s Niplash weekender, where the dance-theatre artist and activist explores the politics of feeding babies with raw honesty and a sense of humour. Lyndsey Winship
Broken Glass Young Vic, London, to 18 April Director Jordan Fein – who always injects his productions with explosive energy and intent – tackles Arthur Miller’s arresting play. It’s set in Brooklyn in 1938, where a woman suddenly becomes paralysed as fascism surges in Germany. Should be electric. Miriam Gillinson
The Memory of Water Everyman theatre, Liverpool, 25 February to 14 March This north-western co-production marks the 30th anniversary of Shelagh Stephenson’s Olivier award-winning comedy. Set in 1996, it sees three sisters return to their northern childhood home for their mother’s funeral and is suffused with laughter, slippery memories and lashings of whisky. MG
AI Confidential With Hannah Fry BBC Two/iPlayer, 21 February , 9pm Billed as a “real-life Black Mirror”, this documentary series sees the corporation’s favourite science bod investigate the most mind-bending examples of technology’s impact on our bodies and minds, from chatbot romances to lives upended by the decisions of artificial intelligence models.
Dirty Business Channel 4, 21 February , 9pm If you thought ripped-from-the-headlines social justice dramas (see: Mr Bates, Toxic Town) were becoming slightly less ubiquitous, fear not: this new series stars Jason Watkins and David Thewlis as Oxfordshire neighbours who notice dying fish in their local river – and soon reveal a horrific national scandal.
Scrubs Disney+, 26 February Pretend the last 15 years never happened with this full-cast revival of the charmingly quirky 00s medical comedy. That’s right: you can now dive back into the arms of your old goofy doctor pals – JD, Turk and Elliot – plus the iconically irascible Dr Cox and soothingly wise nurse Carla.
Vanished Prime Video, 27 February The Big Bang Theory’s Kaley Cuoco stars as a woman whose luxury escape becomes the holiday from hell after her boyfriend (Sam Claflin) goes missing on a train in this glossy, trashy, France-set thriller. RA
Resident Evil Requiem PC, PS5, Switch 2, Xbox; out 27 February It really is a great time for legacy horror games at the moment: Silent Hill has had a full revival; and Resident Evil is as vitally scary as it’s ever been. This new instalment stars the returning Leon Kennedy alongside a new character, FBI analyst Grace, in the remains of Raccoon City.
Reigns: The Witcher PC, smartphones; out 25 February A fun choice-and-consequence-based card game based on the grisly Witcher fantasy series. Each card presents you with an urgent situation: make decisions for monster hunter Geralt by swiping left or right. Keza MacDonald
Peaches – No Lube So Rude Out now A cursory glance at the tracklisting for Canadian dance-punk maverick Peaches’ seventh album confirms the fact she’s not exactly mellowed in the decade since her last opus. Hanging Titties and Not in Your Mouth None of Your Business rub sweaty shoulders with clattering lead single, Fuck Your Face.
Hilary Duff – Luck … Or Something Out now Following a sold-out teaser tour, the teenage Disney star turned 00s pop idol releases her first album in more than a decade. Co-produced by her husband, Matthew Koma (Zedd, Shania Twain), songs such as Mature pair fizzing guitar-pop with more reflective lyrics interrogating Duff’s early years in the spotlight.
Mumford & Sons – Prizefighter Out now It feels a bit too on-the-nose for the waistcoat-botherers and professional folk-rockers to have a track on this sixth album called The Banjo Song. But subtlety was never their strong point, and like most of their oeuvre it plods along nicely, with arena-ready choruses and dusty barroom bonhomie.
Leigh-Anne – My Ego Told Me To Out now After a few one-off singles and a label switch, erstwhile Little Mixer Leigh-Anne releases her debut solo album. Fusing elements of reggae, dancehall and pop, songs such as the Masters at Work-sampling Been a Minute and the hot and heavy Burning Up prioritise personality over people‑pleasing. MC
Creation Myth Podcast A moving and deeply personal series from podcaster Helena de Groot who explores her decision to not have children and its effect on her current sense of purpose in life as a woman in her 40s.
David Bennett YouTube Songwriter David Bennett’s video essays make music theory accessible and surprisingly entertaining thanks to his incisive analysis of famous songs. Highlights include a miniseries on the Beatles and the pervasiveness of the “gospel climb” chord progression.
Weathered: Earth’s Extremes PBS America, 23 February, 1.10am This six-part series from science journalist Maiya May presents a worrying overview of the climate crisis. From urban heat centres to changing ocean currents, May’s rundown of climate tipping points illustrate an urgent need for change. Ammar Kalia