article_id: guardian_118
url: https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2026/feb/20/colour-of-the-moment-apple-green-golden-globes-baftas
title: Meet the colour of the moment: apple green
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
O n the fashion colour wheel, green has long carried a reputation for being “tricky” – a shade that clashes with others and flatters only certain skin tones. Yet this year, a particular apple green has been steadily gaining popularity. It has appeared on catwalks and even on the red carpet, defying the old adage that red and green should never be seen.
The Guardian’s journalism is independent. We will earn a commission if you buy something through an affiliate link. Learn more .
Arriving at the Berlin film festival, Pamela Anderson wore an apple-green wrap by Carolina Herrera over a dress in tonal pinks and greens. Amal Clooney chose a green gown by Versace for a Golden Globes afterparty, while Rose Byrne wore green Chanel for the ceremony itself. With award season in full swing, there is speculation the shade could make a strong showing at the Baftas this Sunday.
The fashion writer Natalie Hammond suggests it may be “the new tomato” – a bold shade that works particularly well as an accent shade, whether in the form of a green scarf or a jumper knotted around the waist. “I saw both of those coming out of New York fashion week ,” she says.
Hammond argues that green is a winner on the red carpet, despite the the fact that the two colours are traditionally seen as clashing. She says: “It’s different from what you usually see, namely a lot of black, white, red and metallic gowns. Green is traditionally a colour that’s soothing, but on the red carpet it can be something else entirely – sophisticated [and] intentional.”
The green trend extends beyond high-end designers and celebrities. John Lewis has embraced the colour for spring , while Depop reported that searches for green rose by 47% in January. John Lewis’s design director, Queralt Ferrer, echoes the idea that the shade may be edging out red. “Spring 2026 will introduce fresh pops of colour, with green taking centre stage as the season’s hero hue,” Ferrer says.
For those hesitant to experiment, she advises starting small: “If you’re new to colour, try adding an accessory, like ballet flats, or make more of a statement by layering in a jumper or cardigan.”