article_id: guardian_139
url: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2026/feb/24/tv-tonight-the-brave-russians-who-are-speaking-out-against-putins-war
title: TV tonight: the brave Russians who are speaking out against Putin’s war
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
9pm, BBC Two The full extent of terror and horror experienced by people in Russia who oppose Putin’s war is detailed in a numbing documentary. All too aware of the risk of arrest – or an even worse punishment – soldiers and civilians give their testimonies in interviews secretly recorded last year. Two men explain the military torture, “meat storms” and summary executions they witnessed regularly on the frontline – with one recalling the moment he knew he had to escape, after being made an officer and ordered to send men to their deaths. Hollie Richardson
7pm, BBC Two This year the high-end cook-off is entirely film-themed, allowing for fun gimmicks such as a Batman breakfast. (Surely it should have been dinner-dinner-dinner-dinner- Batman ?) The heats kick off in the north-west of England where four chefs will be reduced down to just one over three exacting episodes this week. Graeme Virtue
“You wouldn’t see Olivia Colman doing this bollocks, would you?” Danny Dyer and his daughter Dani throw themselves into revamping a dwindling UK caravan park and, in turn, rescuing the Great British Holiday. It’s not the best start: Danny misses the opening weekend because he’s at the Brit awards. Still, he returns to face a room full of disgruntled caravan owners in a lively Q&A. From overpromising outdoor swimming pools to cutting the grass, he’s learning the ropes the hard way. HR
9pm, ITV1 Only nine of the original 14 Brits remain, trying collectively to win a prize by climbing a mountain in New Zealand. There’s further high drama now as the Mountain Keeper makes another effort to divide the group – which, as the contestants grapple with the logistics of crossing a glacial lake, succeeds spectacularly. Jack Seale
9pm, BBC Three Will Poulter (The Bear, Midsommar) returns to the judging panel and he helps out with a challenge in which the queens have to act without speaking. Directing their efforts to become silent film stars is Doctor Who showrunner and super-fan Russell T Davies. JS
10pm, BBC Four Mila Teshaieva and Marcus Lenz’s film offers a series of powerful vignettes from the Ukrainian city of Bucha. In the wake of the brief Russian occupation in 2022, ordinary people adjust to life among the rubble and children find normality at school. “I am very happy that everyone in our class is alive,” says their teacher. Hannah J Davies
Champions League football: Newcastle v Qarabağ , 6.30pm, Prime Video The playoff second leg.