article_id: guardian_152
url: https://www.theguardian.com/film/2026/feb/18/readers-wuthering-heights-film
title: ‘Bored by all the sex and violins’: readers on Wuthering Heights film
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
My group of six English teachers – aged from 30 to 54 – saw the film on Friday. We are still processing our thoughts in a group chat. We agreed that the visuals were often delightfully shocking. We talked about the contrasts between the lavish costumes and the moor landscape, which we thought Fennell got right. We talked about the Charli xcx music and how well it evoked the landscape and the spirit of the book.
We were entertained by the sex scenes and agreed Brontë would have written some if she had written in a different time … but Fennell failed to develop the emotional longing and connection. It was reduced to something silly instead. We lamented that Fennell turned Nellie (our beloved unreliable narrator) into a conniving villain, and the film seemed to miss the supernatural elements of the book – if Fennell wanted to shock us, she could have shown that scene in which Heathcliff digs up Cathy’s body!
While we appreciated that Fennell conflated the characters of Heathcliff and Hareton [Earnshaw] to make him more sympathetic, we thought she forgot what she was doing when she swung into his awfulness – no consistency. However, it was brilliant to combine Earnshaw and Hindley’s characters. That made sense. We will certainly be discussing it for weeks to come. Sarah Campbell, 46, Denver, Colorado
When I heard there was a film of Wuthering Heights – starring Margot Robbie, no less! – I knew I had to read the book. As English is not my mother language, I struggled with the interventions by Joseph, as Brontë transliterated his speech. I had to read it aloud to understand what he was saying (and I live in Yorkshire!). The movie was marketed as the “biggest love story”, but Emily’s story was more about obsession and vengeance.
I was pleasantly surprised by the film. I don’t think that any of the book characters are likable, and Fennell kept that essence. Also, most of the book was narrated in Nelly’s view, and she is an unreliable narrator. This is not represented in the movie, probably as it wouldn’t make sense given the changes in the plot. I saw it on release night and the cinema room was full, something not seen many times these days – so I do believe that despite some valid critiques, the movie is a good watch. Júlia Fachinetti, 25, Sheffield
I’m a fan of 19th-century gothic literature and Kate Bush. However, I have tried and failed to read Wuthering Heights twice. The dense language and long, dark paragraphs left me cold. I may try again though, after seeing the film. I found it to be almost completely absorbing. “Almost”, because the ridiculous costumes and set pieces completely took away from the intensity of the characters, story and locations – these people and places are steeped in passion and drama, there was no need to fluff them for a willing audience! I think it could have been perfectly dark, bleak and moving, if only Fennell hadn’t decided to shine a 21st-century spotlight all over it. Rachel Mountney, 48, Ireland
I previously avoided Wuthering Heights because of its reputation for being complicated. When I heard Emerald Fennell was adapting it, though, I decided to pick it up. I think everyone else had the same idea, because the secondhand bookshop was baffled at having suddenly sold all its copies. My book club decided to read it as well, and had its biggest turnout yet.
I was delighted by how dark the book was. It felt so modern in its depiction of unfettered rage and the unabashed use of blood and violence. I had to pause every now and then to orientate myself, because the narrative-within-a-narrative can be jarring, but it was a lot of fun. Anyone who thinks it’s a love story is out of their mind. It’s about traumatised people who all hate each other and think obsession is romance. It’s brilliant.
Before seeing the film, I was totally prepared to call all the naysayers snobs, but I thought it was pretty poor. There was no chemistry between Cathy and Heathcliff, and I became bored by all the shagging and the violins. Some bits were darkly funny – Isabella’s [Linton] intro, for example – and I enjoyed the surrealism, but it had no consistency. Heathcliff’s personality was toothless. And why was Wuthering Heights (the house) built in Mordor? Cassidy Ellis Salter, 34, London
Emerald Fennell is a visceral director. If you go to see the movie as a “gothic romance”, then you’ll be able to enjoy it. But as an English literature nerd and teacher, I hate that people will come out of it thinking they have seen Wuthering Heights! Maybe just a horny gothic story would have been enough, without calling it that.
To be fair, the idea that the film is a teenager’s version of the book is done well – Cathy’s over the top dramatics, the sexy montage – that’s pure, juvenile fan fiction. It’s interesting, too, that Heathcliff is at times presented as an aside rather than a true main character. I don’t think Fennell went as hard as she could have in showing their obsession with each other. As for the smut factor, that was purely designed for the BookTok girlies – and, to be honest, I think the director could have gone further! I think she was a bit scared almost to go fully feral. The visuals that alluded to sex were clever, though.
I enjoyed the film, but people who now go and read the book will be disappointed; Isabella’s character wasn’t given enough and Linton was too nice. The soundtrack was fabulous – probably the best thing about it really. The teacher in me thinks if it does encourage someone to read the book, then that’s a win. Just as long as people realise that this version is a reinterpretation, or reimagining. Melanie Downs, Toowoomba, Australia
I first read Wuthering Heights as a teenager in the 80s. I always said it was my favourite book. I’m not sure I totally understood it, but the idea of doomed lovers out on the harsh moors was compelling to my adolescent, hormonal self. The characters all had a place and told their own stories. Kate Bush raised the interest further: all British girls wanted to be Cathy, yearning for their own version of Heathcliff, after Kate’s theatrical performance on Top of the Pops.
I’m yet to get over the disappointment of the movie. Too much emphasis on costumes and unsubtle symbolism. The opening scene at the hanging was good, and Martin Clunes was excellent. But I was bored by the film and Margot Robbie’s distractingly lavish costume changes. She was too “Hollywood” for the role. I had to leave 10 minutes early to avoid a parking ticket and missing the end didn’t bother me. Richelle Buckingham, 58, Newcastle
It’s at least 20 years since I last read Wuthering Heights, but the film’s omissions have prompted me to reread it. The book is torrid, twisted and tangled. It’s fascinating how Catherine and Heathcliff’s relationship is tender initially, but begins to warp following Catherine’s stay at Thrushcross Grange, finally becoming passionately cruel after Heathcliff’s return.
The film was a different beast. Conflating some characters and events was an interesting choice. The childhood actors almost overshadow the adult leads. You could say the S&M element of the film is suggested in the book: the central relationship is a pursuit of the pain, rather than the pleasure – although I don’t think there was a thriving BDSM scene in Haworth back then. But Isabella’s fireside scene was definitely artistic licentiousness.
Jacob Elordi caught Heathcliff’s brooding quality perfectly. But a blond Catherine? Heresy! That said, Margot Robbie does a decent job. There were times I felt I was watching a series of music videos, rather than a coherent narrative, which perhaps reflects the messiness of the central relationship. I don’t doubt the film reflects the director’s vision, but it rang a little hollow to me. Gerard O’Doherty, 62, Clevedon, North Somerset