article_id: guardian_177
url: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2026/feb/11/tv-tonight-a-journalists-deep-dive-into-the-mind-of-a-serial-killer
title: TV tonight: a journalist’s deep dive into the mind of a serial killer
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
9pm, Sky Crime When 23-year-old Doug Gretzler was imprisoned in 1973 for murdering 17 people across 20 days – including two children – in the US, with his accomplice Willie Steelman, the only person he talked to was the journalist Laura Greenberg, who recorded their conversations. These took place across an astonishing 350 prison visits and 500 hours of conversation. She opens this documentary, which questions the murderers’ motives. Hollie Richardson
9pm, BBC One The curious comedy ambles through a concluding episode that cosily ties up all the various blackmail/suspicious death loose ends. It begins with a lovely bit of comic business by Mark Heap, as the secretly-not-dead William, husband of Dawn French’s Debbie, develops a taste for spoonfuls of dry cocoa powder. Jack Seale
9pm, Channel 4 In the third episode of this four-parter revisiting the pop star’s 2005 trial on charges of child molestation, the prosecution lays out its case. Rewinding to 1993, Jackson’s maid testifies that she saw him kissing a 13-year-old boy, but was too intimidated to tell police, and there’s a shocking revelation from the boy’s mother. Ellen E Jones
9pm, Channel 5 Remarkable medical scenes to end this series as surgeons Andrew Kay and Richard Irving carve a hole in patient Abi’s skull in order to detangle a tumour and a nerve in her brain. It’s gruelling viewing, though it’s impossible not to be awed by the life-saving possibilities of modern science. Phil Harrison
Enthusiastic MI5 wannabes Dom (Gbemisola Ikumelo) and Kay (Hammed Animashaun) have blundered even further into a tangled conspiracy that seems to go all the way to the top. As the giddy spy comedy hits its series finale, can the rookie agents thwart a devious attempt to sabotage Notting Hill carnival? Graeme Virtue
10pm, Channel 4 Gogglebox fans will be rooting for former star Daniel as he sits down for dinner with a paramedic in this Valentine’s special. Elsewhere in the restaurant, Girls Aloud superfan Patrick is looking for something kinda ooh , while a dentist who enjoys rapping wants somebody who makes him smile. HR