article_id: guardian_188
url: https://www.theguardian.com/thefilter/2026/feb/01/best-valentines-day-gifts-ideas-2026-uk
title: The best UK Valentine’s Day gifts for 2026 that will last beyond 14 February
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
V alentine’s Day: love it or love to hate it, there’s no denying it can feel manufactured to make you spend your hard-earned cash on cheap stuffed toys, out-of-season red roses and unimaginative chocolates. But with the right gift, it can be a great opportunity to show your partner how much you care, and how well you truly know them.
The Guardian’s journalism is independent. We will earn a commission if you buy something through an affiliate link. Learn more .
To help you avoid tat that won’t last – or will get shoved to the back of a cupboard – we’ve rounded up 39 thoughtful ideas to last well beyond 14 February. From a massage candle and toys to spice up your sex life to a bakery guide and a two-person flask for your next adventure, our cliche-free guide will help you find a gift that’s original, personal and will definitely get you in their good books.
Lobsters may not actually mate for life (as once claimed in an episode of Friends), but they sure do look cute embroidered on this eye mask. Made with red velvet for a luxurious feel, this mask will block out light and is filled with lavender to help them drift off.
Clive Tyldesley football commentary charts
A cut above your usual football-themed gifts, these prints of commentator Clive Tyldesley’s match notes are a great way to commemorate a game from their team’s history.
Mini chain huggie hoop earrings
For a catch-all earring that never needs to be taken off, fashion editor Jess Cartner-Morley recommends huggie hoops. “These chain-link hoops by Orelia are my new chic faves,” she says. They’re simple enough to be a crowd-pleasing gift, while the chain detail adds a bit of interest.
For more, check out Jess Cartner-Morley’s February style essentials
What’s My Jam? card game
Prove how well you know each other with this cute card game that’s all about guessing each other’s loves and hates. It’s suitable for two or more players, and would make a great addition to your next date night.
Lelo black pepper and pomegranate massage candle
This candle is a real two-in-one: light it to set a romantic atmosphere, then use the melted wax as an oil for giving your partner a sensual massage – everything you need for a romantic night in.
Britain’s Best Bakeries 2026
If your partner’s love language is coffee and baked goods, Milly Kenny-Ryder’s book of Britain’s best bakeries will give you a new list of locations to try.
A piece of jewellery with a personal touch, this ring can be customised with both your and your partner’s birthstone for a truly sentimental gift.
Black + Blum double-cup flask
Perfect for outdoorsy couples, this one-litre flask comes with two cups that store on either end of it, and it will keep your drinks hot or cold for up to 24 hours. Ideal for sharing a lovely cup of tea on your next adventure.
Kiehl’s Buttermask for lips
This luxurious lip mask hits that gift sweet spot: something they’ll use but may not buy for themselves. Made with coconut oil and mango butter, this overnight treatment will leave their lips soft, hydrated and ready for a kiss.
Personalised movie snack tray
February is still staying-in month, so celebrate your love for snuggling on the sofa with a special tray to hold all your snacks. To make your next movie night feel even more special, customise the enamel tray with your names.
Stained glass flowers
Fresh flowers are lovely, but they don’t last long enough. These stained-glass flowers are works of art and will last for ever. Buy them their birth flower as a small token or build a larger bouquet for a more standout gift.
Freddie’s Flowers subscription
However, if they really love real flowers, buy them a subscription to make the treat last beyond February. Freddie’s Flowers offers beautiful bunches of seasonal stems delivered monthly; it was rated the best subscription in Zoë Phillimore’s test of the best flower delivery services .
Pasta Evangelists pasta-making kit
This kit comes with two (1kg each) bags of flour, recipe cards and all the tools you need to make homemade pasta, including pasta cutter, ravioli stamps (including a heart-shaped one), rolling pin, an apron and a gnocchi board. A wholesome activity for the romantic day itself, but also a gift that will keep on giving as you master making your favourite pasta dishes.
Mesh heart embroidery bralette
Mesh heart embroidery high-waisted brief
Female-founded brand Lemonade Dolls prides itself on making pretty underwear that puts comfort first. This see-through red mesh set with embroidered hearts is just the right mix of sexy and cute. It also does this design in a bra for fuller busts (DD-G).
Ultimate trunks, pack of three
Classic and simple but sexy, these trunks from David Gandy’s Wellwear brand are made from a cotton-blend stretchy fabric, designed to be breathable and feel like a second skin.
Silent night weighted blanket
If they’re a person who appreciates cosiness, then a weighted blanket will level up their restful nights in. Jane Hoskyn rated this one from Silentnight the best budget option in her test of the best weighted blankets . “It was heavy enough to envelope me with satisfying pressure and genuinely helped calm me as I lay on my side to go to sleep,” she wrote.
If you prefer just a “little something” gift for Valentine’s Day, then this mug is a cute and goofy way of showing your partner you love them. It’s a gift they can get a lot of use from, too.
Le Labo beard oil, 60ml
This Le Labo oil will make their beard so soft that you’ll no longer complain about it scratching you. Made with sunflower, grapeseed and jojoba oil, this treatment protects, nourishes and smooths the hair.
Zero Japan coffee dripper
If they’re a filter coffee drinker, this ceramic dripper comes in an array of cheerful colours to add some joy to their morning ritual.
For more, read the secret to barista-style coffee at home
Vyrao Ludeaux eau de parfum, 30ml
Vyrao’s gorgeous but distinct fragrances will have people asking the giftee what they’re wearing. Ludeaux is a balanced mix of peach, osmanthus, jasmine and magnolia that’s equal parts floral and sweet.
Malin + Goetz Dark Rum eau de parfum, 50ml
This scent from New York-based brand Malin + Goetz will transport them to sunnier days, even in gloomy February. Upon first sniff it’s quite tropical, reminiscent of a piña colada thanks to notes of fruity plum, creamy milk and rum. More masculine notes of leather and musk stop it from feeling too gourmand, though, while spicier notes of amber and anise add warmth.
M&S Sea Salt & Neroli eau de toilette, 100ml
This eau de toilette from Marks & Spencer has been compared to Jo Malone’s Wood Sage & Sea Salt, but it’s a fraction of the price at £8. Neroli and musk add depth to invigorating sea salt for a scent that’s fresh and beachy but floral. M&S encourages layering fragrances from its Discover collection to create a concoction that’s personal to you.
M&S Smoked Oud eau de toilette, 100ml
A more masculine option from the same range, Smoked Oud is a warm and earthy scent with hints of musk and sandalwood. It’s very wearable and not as overpowering as aftershave, making it a great everyday scent that won’t stink out the entire train on their commute.
M&S Autograph men’s wide-leg joggers
For nights in together, these wide-leg joggers are comfy and stylish. The elastic waistband and cotton material provide comfort, while the pin-tuck detail elevates them from your average slobby joggers.
Adidas Originals women’s wide-leg joggers
Made from a soft fleece and with a relaxed fit, these joggers are the perfect attire for lounging on the sofa, carrying out errands … or going on snack runs.
Mini hardback photo book
We’re all constantly taking photos on our phones, but we’re willing to bet you hardly ever look through them. Celebrate all your favourite memories in this mini photo book that you can both flick through and reminisce. The cute artwork on the front is also appropriately Valentine’s-y.
Andy Warhol playing cards
This pack of playing cards inspired by Andy Warhol’s pop art will add some fun and culture to your next game night.
Hearts are a Valentine’s cliche, but we couldn’t resist these cute coupes. They’re kitschy in the best way, and are perfect for toasting milestones in your relationship.
Traditional treats hamper
For edible treats that will last longer than a day, go for a hamper. This one is filled with traditional delights, from fruit cake and strawberry jam to lemon drizzle flapjacks and ground coffee, to keep them going for weeks.
Espa restorative bath and body oil, 100ml
Encourage them to take a moment for themselves with this aromatherapy oil that can be used directly on the body or in the bath. The blend of rose geranium, sweet orange, lavender and palmarosa screams “spa day”.
Rechargeable mushroom lamp
When trying to create a romantic vibe, the big light is a no-no. This rechargeable mushroom lamp will create instant ambience in any room, and would be a great gift for anyone who appreciates a cosy atmosphere.
If you both want to unleash your inner Marty Supreme , why not try out table tennis together? This set comes with two bats, two balls and an adjustable net.
The Snack Hacker recipe book
If your partner loves experimenting with different flavours or has a penchant for weird food combos, George Egg’s recipe book will help them take it to the next level. Egg promises “surprising combinations, unexpected ingredients and unconventional methods” to create dishes that shouldn’t work, but just do – from fish finger spaghetti to Twiglet brownies.
Coco de Mer Pure Delight orgasm balm, 20g
A tingly mix of menthol extract, almond oil, shea butter and avocado oil, this balm is designed to increase circulation to the clitoris and enhance orgasm. A fun present for your partner if you like to mix it up in the bedroom.
Tenga penile stimulating sleeve
There’s long been a squeamishness about sex toys for penises, but this abstract-style penile stimulating sleeve from Tenga is pretty enough to break the stigma. If you and your partner enjoy experimenting with toys in the bedroom, then why not give it a go? “These toys give far more mind-blowing stimulation than a plain palm,” says sex writer Alix Fox in her guide to easy ways to spice up your sex life .
Hera Flex rabbit vibrator
Fox rated the Hera Flex the best rabbit in her test of the best vibrators , so you know this is a gift that you (and your partner) will be satisfied with. “It’s as flexible as a yoga master and both parts of it are poseable, allowing you to easily customise how it curves to fit your bits,” says Fox, meaning even if you aren’t entirely sure what works for your partner, they should be able to adjust the Hera Flex to suit them.
Personalised beer stein
Admittedly not the most romantic gift, but it’s definitely a sentimental one. These steins can be customised with the style of their favourite beer and their name. Some even allow you to incorporate your partner’s face into the logo.
Bala Bangle wrist weights
If being active is important to them, these aesthetically pleasing wrist weights are a great way for them to increase the intensity of their lunchtime stomp.
For a gift that they won’t forget, Cameo is filled with all sorts of celebs that you can pay to record a personal message for your loved one. Prices vary widely depending on who you choose, but there’s a range of icons on there from Miriam Margolyes and Miranda Hart to Michael Owen and James Buckley.
For more, read the sexiest toys and gifts for Valentine’s Day and thoughtful gifts that last – and won’t end up in landfill
Don’t buy anything until you’ve read the Filter, the Guardian’s home for truly independent product reviews and recommendations. Whether you’re after rigorous tests or shopping inspo, affordable gifts or advice on how to make your belongings last longer, we’re here to help you make smarter, more sustainable choices.
The Filter is packed with trustworthy buying advice on everything from coffee machines to hiking boots, mascara to secateurs. So visit us today and start buying better and smarter, and wasting less.
This article was originally published on 1 February 2026. Reviews published in the Filter may be periodically updated to reflect new products and at the editor’s discretion. The date of an article’s most recent update can be found in the timestamp at the top of the page. This article was amended on 11 February 2026; three new gift ideas were added, and prices were updated throughout.