article_id: guardian_20
url: https://www.theguardian.com/news/2026/feb/28/six-great-reads-gisele-pelicot-olympic-politics-european-dating-tips
title: Six great reads: Gisèle Pelicot, Olympic politics and European dating tips
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
In this timely featured essay, Eduardo Porter examined the disintegration of the world order, as the US crushes the system of cooperation and shared values it helped to create after the second world war, concluding: “History seems pretty clear that a world of roaming great powers is not particularly safe nor prosperous.”
From the US men’s hockey team’s chummy phone call with Trump to the backlash against Hunter Hess and others who criticised the US president, Milan-Cortina was an unusually political Winter Olympics. As Bryan Armen Graham reminded us, just wait for Los Angeles in the summer of 2028.
Zoe Williams wrote a fascinating interview with Andrew Lownie, the author of Entitled, a book about Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor that documents, as Zoe put it, “a priapic, exploitative and money-grubbing life in which nothing was ever refused him”. Elsewhere, the art writer Eddy Frankel considered the already famous photograph of Mountbatten-Windsor after his arrest on 19 February, comparing it to Goya and Munch’s The Scream .
Angelique Chrisafis’s interview with Gisèle Pelicot was a moving portrait of a woman whose story shocked the world. They discussed shame, resilience, how her husband hid his depravity behind the guise of the perfect husband and why, despite everything, she believes “hope is allowed”.
For some New Yorkers, the composer William Basinski’s The Disintegration Loops seemed to sum up the mood after the seismic shock of 9/11. He and his friend Anohni discussed the making of this avant garde masterpiece to Tim Jonze – and hundreds of thousands of Guardian readers.
After a breakup, Kitty Drake threw herself into internet dating before becoming increasingly disillusioned. Could daters in Europe give her insight into a different way of meeting people?