article_id: guardian_204
url: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2026/feb/04/killing-on-a-mass-scale-piecing-together-the-full-picture-of-irans-brutal-crackdown
title: Killing on a mass scale: piecing together the full picture of Iran’s brutal crackdown
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
On Thursday 8 January, after weeks of swelling protests, Iran went dark. Almost everything went offline: internet, messaging, social media, phones. The shutdown was so severe that it has taken an unusually long time to build up a clear picture of exactly what happened in the hours and days that followed.
From across the country, however, evidence has now emerged of killing on a mass scale. Across multiple cities and towns, authorities opened fire on crowds of demonstrators, killing thousands and wounding thousands more. Getting a sense of the true scale has been incredibly difficult, with estimates of the number of dead ranging from a few thousand to more than 35,000.
Using cross-referenced witness accounts, photographs and videos from hospitals, morgues and graveyards, we were able to piece together a picture of the nightmarish levels of violence: piles of hundreds of corpses, ice-cream trucks filled with the dead, and victims who appear to have been summarily executed with gunshots to the head while still hooked up to hospital medical equipment. We spoke to doctors inside Iran who formed an informal network of medical staff to compare notes, death tolls and patterns of injury – they estimated that the toll may be about 10 times the official government figures (Iranian authorities say just over 3,100 people died).
One surgeon gave this deeply affecting account of what it was like working over those nights. “The hospital became a mass casualty zone,” he said. “These were not warning shots. These were bullets designed to pass through the body.” Many doctors took huge risks, setting up informal clinics to assist protesters, and speaking out about the toll – there are already reports of medics being arrested , with at least one surgeon potentially facing the death penalty.
Inside the country, Iranians continue to push for accountability from their government, and in the coming weeks, we will continue reporting on the human rights situation they face. Much of January’s violence happened in the dark, but we believe it should not stay that way. Tess McClure is editor of the Rights and freedom series
Human rights | Trump-led abuses amid a “democratic recession” have put human rights in peril , according to a HRW report. The rights group said growing authoritarianism in US, Russia and China threatens the rules-based order, with almost three-quarters of the global population now living under autocratic rulers.
Global health | Ultra-processed foods should be treated more like cigarettes than food , a study found. Like tobacco, UPFs are engineered to encourage addiction and consumption and so should be regulated in a similar way, the researchers said.
Aid cuts | By 2030, cuts in international aid could lead to more than 22 million avoidable deaths , including 5.4 million children under five, according to the most comprehensive modelling to date. Two decades of progress on child deaths from infectious diseases is at risk of being reversed.
“When war begins, you take what you can in your hands and run,” says 35-year-old Dieudoné Muka, who describes the harrowing two-day journey he made with his pregnant wife and children as M23 rebels advanced on Luvungi town in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Thousands who fled the violence now face disease and shortages in overcrowded refugee camps in Burundi.
Millions created deepfake nudes on Telegram as AI tools drive global wave of digital abuse
‘She narrowly escaped three bullets’: Pakistan’s trans community shaken by attacks and killings
‘They told us to leave. They didn’t tell us where to go’: the demolitions destroying homes and lives in Lagos
‘You feel obligated’: African workers on the pain – and pride – of the ‘black tax’
Iran accused of ‘campaign of revenge’ as doctors arrested for treating protesters
‘It’s a miracle we survived’: the civilian crew trapped on a ship in Ukraine as bombs rained down
This is Africa’s most consequential decade: nothing will ever be the same again | Monica Geingos
Sanctions are not a humane alternative to bombs. They are economic warfare with civilians as collateral damage | Kenneth Mohammed
‘Justice is optional’: why Trump’s pardon of Honduran ex-president scares nature defenders
‘The land will be left as ashes’: why Patagonia’s wildfires are almost impossible to stop
Walsh draws on her 25 years of experience working with international NGOs to provide insights and advice on how to improve localised development and climate aid, asking uncomfortable questions and challenging deeply held assumptions in the sector.
The Marrakech edition of 1-54 , the international fair dedicated to contemporary African art , will take place in the Morocco this weekend bringing together more than 20 galleries from 12 countries. 5-8 February; 1-54.com .
‘We need change, not just as young people but as a country’: Uganda’s youth on 40 years of Museveni