article_id: guardian_219
url: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2026/feb/13/tv-tonight-confessions-and-cliffhangers-in-under-salt-marsh
title: TV tonight: confessions and cliffhangers in Under Salt Marsh
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
9pm, Sky Atlantic After Nessa’s body was found in the landfill, local farmer Solomon (Jonathan Pryce) left us with a confession cliffhanger – but what part did he really play in the little girl’s death? While detective Bull (Rafe Spall) questions him, Jackie (Kelly Reilly) grieves her niece and attempts to reconnect with her sister after years of guilt. The village needs to evacuate for the killer storm that’s coming – but it will take more than a natural disaster to ruin Jackie’s perfectly bedhead-tousled mop of hair. Hollie Richardson
8pm, Channel 4 They are calling this the west’s greatest military test since the cold war, and with exclusive access to Nato’s inner workings in 2025, this drum-banging documentary certainly puts on a show. From Naples to Narva, in Estonia, it depicts a Europe already deeply engaged in the battle to stop Putin – with or without support from Trump. Ellen E Jones
9pm, Channel 4 The armchair critics have a lot to dissect this week, with a huge Lord of the Flies adaptation, extreme challenge show The Summit, Winter Olympics action and How to Get to Heaven from Belfast – from Derry Girls creator Lisa McGee. Plus, there’s always whatever the hell is happening in the news to chew over. HR
9pm, BBC Three The series that tests the literacy of comedians, including Tim Minchin, continues its “needlessly elaborate spelling challenges” – with the worst performer having to wear a dunce’s hat. The words they struggle to correctly formulate this week include “desiccated”, “synthetic” and “testicular torsion”. The main fun is in testing yourself. Alexi Duggins
10. 40pm, BBC One Emmy-winning man of the moment (and, well, every moment) Stephen Graham is on the red sofa talking about his new dark comedy thriller, Good Boy. Also taking a seat are Kaley Cuoco, Adrian Lester and Gorillaz, who will perform their new single, Orange County. HR
10.45pm, ITV1 This dramatisation of the horrific crimes of serial killer Gacy benefits from a certain narrative restraint (though that isn’t how you would always characterise Michael Chernus’s lead performance). In this episode, the police look to Gacy to lead them to the bodies of his victims. He is surprisingly cooperative, which offers certain clues about his motives. Phil Harrison
Eternity (David Freyne, 2025 ), Apple TV
David Freyne’s lovely new film is a throwback to classic Hollywood romantic comedies such as the Cary Grant classic My Favourite Wife. Miles Teller (in the Grant role) plays Larry, who dies accidentally after 65 years of marriage to Elizabeth Olsen’s terminally ill Joan. He finds himself in an afterlife transit hotel where he must select one of many themed worlds in which to live for ever. Joan turns up soon after, but is met by Luke (Callum Turner), her first husband, who was killed in the Korean war and has been waiting for her ever since. Which one will Joan choose to spend eternity with? Teller, Olsen and Turner find a perfect balance of wit and warmth in a charming drama. Simon Wardell
The Astronaut (Jess Varley, 2025), Paramount+
When the lead character says of her remote forest retreat, “It sounds like a horror movie,” you know what to plan for. In Jess Varley’s sci-fi drama Kate Mara is the titular astronaut, who returns to Earth after a re-entry that went wrong. Sent to recuperate in a hi-tech rural house by her Pentagon general dad (Laurence Fishburne), she starts getting visual and auditory hallucinations, not to mention mystery bruises. And is there a creature hiding in the woods? A tidy chiller with a fleshy twist. SW
How to Train Your Dragon ( Dean DeBlois, 2025), 8.25am, 4pm, Sky Cinema Premiere
Universal has got in on the Disney act by creating a live-action version of its hit 2010 animated comedy – and has done so very nicely too. The original’s writer-director, Dean DeBlois, is back to shepherd the (mostly) human cast, led by Mason Thomas as smith’s apprentice Hiccup. He’s a disappointment to his Viking chief father, Stoick the Vast (Gerard Butler, reprising his role), due to his ineptitude in fighting the dragons that raid their village. But then Hiccup befriends one of the creatures, Toothless, and sees a way out of his clan’s never-ending conflict. Delightful. SW
Moulin Rouge! (Baz Luhrmann, 2001), 11pm, BBC Two
Take a great opera such as La Bohème, chuck in a Bollywood dance routine or two, some songs by Elton John and Nirvana, plus the odd Greek myth, then stir them into the heady melting pot of fin-de-siècle Paris – and you have Baz Luhrmann’s fever dream of a movie. It’s an almost overwhelming cultural mashup, with Ewan McGregor’s songwriter and Nicole Kidman’s courtesan/stage star doing well to convince us as star-crossed lovers amid the colourful extravagance, frenetic editing and anachronistic tunes of this magpie musical. A clear case of more being more. SW
Men’s FA Cup football: Hull v Chelsea, 7.30pm, BBC One The fourth-round tie.