article_id: guardian_220
url: https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2026/feb/20/afternoon-update-friday-ntwnfb
title: Afternoon Update: PM rules out republic push after Andrew arrest; Grey’s Anatomy star Eric Dane dies; and lion training for lunar new year
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Anthony Albanese has described Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor’s arrest as an “extraordinary fall from grace” but says the latest crisis facing the monarchy won’t prompt another referendum on Australia becoming a republic.
The former prince, the brother of King Charles III, was arrested in the UK overnight on suspicion of misconduct in public office. The king insisted “the law must take its course” after what is thought to be the first time in modern history a member of the royal family has been held by police.
The arrest has prompted calls from US lawmakers and survivors of Jeffrey Epstein’s abuse to demand accountability for those linked to the late sex offender across the Atlantic. British papers splashed a photo of the prince across their front pages, with the Sun declaring: “Now he’s sweating” .
Federal police ‘received reports of a crime’ in relation to Pauline Hanson’s comments about Muslims
Former NSW MP Rory Amon faces trial over allegations he abused 13-year-old in car park bathroom
Chris Baghsarian: police hopes fade of finding 85-year-old kidnap victim alive after raid on Dural property
UniSuper accused of greenwashing after quietly reducing environmental element of investment option
World Club Challenge fightback falls short as Broncos get glimpse of uncertain NRL season ahead
Trump says he will order the release of Pentagon files on aliens and UFOs
Sydney’s Qing Fong lion dance team will perform more than 100 times during lunar new year. Isabella Lee steps into one of their training sessions to learn just how hard the dancers train to be performance-ready.
“Throughout his journey with ALS, Eric became a passionate advocate for awareness and research, determined to make a difference for others facing the same fight.”
Representatives for Eric Dane made a statement after the actor died aged 53 , less than a year after he publicly revealed he had been diagnosed with motor neurone disease. Dane became a favourite among Grey’s Anatomy fans playing Dr Mark Sloan – aka “McSteamy”.
Andrew arrested: is this the end for the royal family?
Lucy Hough speaks to Guardian journalist David Pegg about the arrest of Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor on suspicion of misconduct in public office by police investigating his dealings with Jeffrey Epstein.
Listen to the episode here
Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen $ https://audio.guim.co.uk/2026/02/19-79766-TIF_andrew_FS.mp3
The actor Robert Duvall, who died this week, is perhaps best known for his cameo as the Stetson-wearing Lt Col Kilgore in Apocalypse Now. Duvall’s scene-stealing portrayal earned him a Golden Globe for best supporting actor and an Oscar nomination in that category. What is less well known is that his character was based on a real officer who fought in Vietnam.
Today’s starter word is: TREE . You have five goes to get the longest word including the starter word. Play Wordiply .
If you would like to receive this Afternoon Update to your email inbox every weekday, sign up here , or start your day with a curated breakdown of the key stories you need to know with our Morning Mail newsletter . You can follow the latest in US politics by signing up for This Week in Trumpland .