article_id: guardian_273
url: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2026/feb/14/matthew-kelly-wokeness-q-and-a-interview
title: Matthew Kelly: ‘Something extinct I’d bring back to life? Wokeness – a good thing that’s been hijacked’
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
B orn in Lancashire, Matthew Kelly, 75, studied drama at Manchester Polytechnic and acted at the Liverpool Everyman. He moved into TV, presenting Game for a Laugh in the 80s, You Bet! in the 90s and Stars in their Eyes from 1993 to 2004. Having returned to the stage, he received an Olivier award in 2004 for his role in Of Mice and Men in London’s West End. He stars in Waiting for Godot at Glasgow’s Citizens theatre from 20 February to 14 March, then takes the play to Liverpool and Bolton. He has two children and lives in London.
What is your greatest fear? Not being able to work.
What is the trait you most deplore in yourself? Intolerance.
What is the trait you most deplore in others? Intolerance.
Aside from property, what’s the most expensive thing you’ve bought? Insurance – it’s such a scam.
What is your most treasured possession? My freedom pass.
Describe yourself in three words Friendly, opinionated, hilarious.
What makes you unhappy? Very little. I’m always, “Hello birds, hello trees, aren’t we having a lovely time?”
What do you most dislike about your appearance? I never look in the mirror.
If you could bring something extinct back to life, what would you choose? Wokeness – a good thing that’s been hijacked. Woke is having empathy.
Who would play you in the film of your life? Alan Carr.
What is your most unappealing habit? Snoring.
What scares you about getting older? Learning lines.
Which book are you ashamed not to have read? Fifty per cent of the books on my shelf, so much so that I gave them away.
Would you choose fame or anonymity? Anonymity is better but I wouldn’t have missed out on being famous.
What is your guiltiest pleasure? Judge Judy.
To whom would you most like to say sorry and why? My parents, because I rather slipped from their standards on more than one occasion. And when they got older, I wish I’d been kinder and more tolerant with them.
What or who is the greatest love of your life? Work. It’s something I adore and it’s not really work; you just have to look at my hands – they’re like silk. I’ve never done a day’s work in my life.
What has been your biggest disappointment? I didn’t get a part in a TV series for a writer that I’ve always wanted to work with, but I wasn’t right for it, if I’m truly honest.
How often do you have sex? As often as is appropriate.
What would you like to leave your children? Laughter.
What single thing would improve the quality of your life? Removal of fear and anxiety.
Would you rather have more sex, money or fame? Oh, I think I’ve had more than enough of all of those.
How would you like to be remembered? I don’t care.
What is the most important lesson life has taught you? Don’t dwell.