article_id: guardian_278
url: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2026/feb/18/a-moment-that-changed-me-parents-sold-childhood-home-panic-came-to-an-end
title: A moment that changed me: my parents sold my childhood home – and my creeping panic came to an end
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
W eekend breakfasts have always been big in our house. Usually a cereal course followed by a full English. It’s the execution that makes it special for me – the colourful tablecloth, the mix of bread and toast (so you can fold over a slice of your choice to make a mini bacon sandwich), the teapot, the ginger biscuits you dunk into your tea for “afters”.
When I’d visit home in Yorkshire from London, where I lived for 20 years, I treasured these breakfast moments, sitting around the table with Mum and Dad and enjoying the well-oiled ritual in the suburban three-bed semi where I’d grown up.
In January 2025, I sat down for my final breakfast at that table, marking a turning point in all our lives. After we had twins and became a family of five, my partner and I decided to move our three small children back to Yorkshire in 2020, to be closer to Mum and Dad.
Around the same time, they sold their house and we decided to build them a bungalow in our garden. We put 80% of their belongings into storage and moved Mum and Dad in with us until the build was complete.
Packing up Mum and Dad’s house, my house, felt like a massive goodbye – that bedroom, those memories, the feeling of safety and refuge I always felt there. I knew exactly where all the creaks were on the stairs and how many steps in total (13).
That evening, I basked in the blue glow of the gas fire watching a Jane McDonald travelogue on Channel 5, temporarily free of my own responsibilities, sedated by nostalgia. We ordered “an Imran’s” – curry from the best takeaway in town – our treat after a day of packing.
Even though I’m a grown woman in my 40s with my own family, it felt scary to take the leap, and not have “home” to go back to.
On our final morning in the house, Mum diligently wrapped mixing bowls and jugs of every size, and separate biscuit containers for each genre of biscuit. We packed at least four types of vacuum cleaner (they’re big on cleaning), and crockery I’ve known since childhood: the weird pot with the face on it that houses scouring pads; the bright red bread bin.
We took a break from the mind-bending, never-ending enormity of packing to sit down for that last breakfast. Mum voiced what we were all thinking: it was strange to see the place so empty. I worried that they’d begin to think they’d made a mistake.
“How do you feel?” I asked, tentatively. There was a pause as Dad continued to pour the tea, and I held my breath.
“Well, it’s pretty awesome, isn’t it?” he replied.
I breathed a huge sigh of relief. I had expected sadness, maybe even doubt – but, ever the optimist, he was already looking to the future. His response made something shift in me, too.
Yes, it was a huge goodbye in so many ways, but it was also the start of something new: an adventure in multigenerational living – and building a house with zero experience. I realised this wasn’t about loss at all, but about movement and trust. Moving them into our home wasn’t a rescue mission; it was our next adventure.
For months, I’d been quietly spiralling about the future – as an older mum of three small kids with two ageing parents, it’s hard not to worry about the practicalities. I had a creeping panic that time was speeding up, and kept returning to the idea that if we were going to do something bold to future-proof our family set-up, it had to be now – while they were still well enough to enjoy it, and while the kids were young enough to see it as normal rather than an intrusion. I didn’t want care to reach a crisis point; I wanted it to be a choice.
Hearing Dad’s cheerfulness – his utter absence of regret – I realised that what I’d been framing as “the end of an era” was actually the start of a new one. Sitting at the table, making my mini bacon sandwich, I realised I was ready for our next chapter.
I’ve learned that future-proofing isn’t just practical planning, it’s optimism, disguised as logistics. Breakfast still happens; it’s just at a different table now. And we’re creating new rituals: I talked Dad into trying a breakfast burrito with me the other day. He observed me prepping the avocado (his nemesis), refried beans and other foreign-to-him accoutrements, and I could almost hear a drum roll in my head as he took his first bite of the filled tortilla wrap. A pause. “Mmmmmm.” Then his face lit up, and in the style of Peter Kay, he proclaimed: “It’s the future”.
Alison Taylor can be found at: alitaylormovesmumanddadin.substack.com