article_id: guardian_280
url: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/feb/21/european-football-bayern-munich-juventus-real-madrid-inter-psg
title: European football: Osasuna stun Real, Kane edges Bayern past Frankfurt
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Raúl García’s superb 90th-minute strike consigned La Liga leaders Real Madrid to a 2-1 defeat at Osasuna in La Liga on Saturday.
Champions Barcelona trail Madrid by two points but can overtake them on Sunday if they beat Levante at Camp Nou.
Álvaro Arbeloa’s Madrid were below par in Pamplona and fell behind to an Ante Budimir penalty. A video assistant review showed goalkeeper Thibaut Courtois had stood on Budimir’s foot. The referee overturned an initial booking for simulation and Budimir calmly converted the spot-kick.
Real levelled when Federico Valverde surged down the left and crossed low for Vinícius Júnior to slide home from close range in the 73rd minute.
The second leg of Madrid’s Champions League playoff against José Mourinho’s Benfica on Wednesday seemed to play on their minds as they failed to kick on at El Sadar.
Vinícius, who scored a sensational goal to give Madrid a slender first-leg lead but was then the victim of alleged racial abuse, thought he had earned his team a point.
But as the visitors pressed in added time, the substitute Dani Ceballos lost possession and Raúl Moro released García, who beat Raúl Asencio before firing into the top corner to seal a famous win.
“We lacked punch, teeth and speed up front. We have a big margin to improve and a long road ahead of us, starting on Wednesday in the Champions League against Benfica,” Arbeloa said.
Alexander Sørloth struck twice as Atlético Madrid got back to winning ways in La Liga with an entertaining 4-2 triumph over Espanyol .
Diego Simeone’s side, who are fourth, earned their first victory in four league matches in a goal-riddled game at their Metropolitano stadium. They trail Real Madrid by 12 points, meaning their hopes of fighting for the title are virtually over. However, Atlético were able to open up a six-point lead on Real Betis in fifth after the Andalusians drew 1-1 with Rayo Vallecano .
Harry Kane scored twice as Bayern Munich beat Eintracht Frankfurt 3-2 in the Bundesliga on Saturday to briefly move nine points clear of Borussia Dortmund at the top of the table.
Bayern took the lead in the 16th minute when Aleksandar Pavlovic volleyed in from the edge of the box and Kane made it 2-0 four minutes later, ghosting inside a crowded box to head home from a Michael Olise corner. The England captain struck again in the 68th minute, punishing a defensive error before curling a shot inside the left post for his 28th league goal of the season.
Frankfurt hit back when Jonathan Burkardt converted a 75th-minute spot-kick after Kane fouled Oscar Højlund. Arnaud Kalimuendo capitalised on a mix-up to score in the 86th minute, but Bayern held on for their 19th win in 23 league games.
Borussia Dortmund needed to beat RB Leipzig to keep pressure on Bayern, who visit the Westfalenstadion next week, but trailed 2-0 at half-time after a Christoph Baumgartner double.
Dortmund forced Romulo into an own goal to cut the lead and former Wolves striker Fábio Silva scored in the fifth minute of stoppage time to snatch a 2-2 draw and cut Bayern’s lead to eight points.
Henrikh Mkhitaryan’s second-half goal helped Inter move 10 points clear at the Serie A summit with a 2-0 win at Lecce on Saturday.
Cristian Chivu’s Inter struggled to break down their stubborn hosts but 37-year-old Mkhitaryan and Manuel Akanji struck late to put the pressure on second-placed Milan before their match against Parma on Sunday.
Inter suffered a surprise 3-1 defeat by Norwegians Bodø/Glimt in the Champions League knockout playoff first leg in midweek, but have now won seven successive games in Serie A.
They were given a boost by Milan’s draw with Como on Wednesday and strengthened their grip on the title race further at Lecce as they look to regain the Scudetto from Napoli.
Inter wing-back Luis Henrique had an early effort cleared off the line by Jamil Siebert, before home goalkeeper Wladimiro Falcone made a fine save to deny Pio Esposito.
Falcone was called into action again in the 36th minute, tipping an Esposito header around the post, and Davide Frattesi fired over shortly afterwards.
Inter thought they had scored six minutes after the restart but Federico Dimarco’s effort was ruled out after a video assistant referee (VAR) review for a tight offside against Marcus Thuram in the build-up.
The visitors finally made their dominance count with 15 minutes remaining, though, as Mkhitaryan fired home a half-volley through a crowded penalty area. Inter put the game to bed when Akanji headed in a Dimarco corner with eight minutes remaining.
Juventus ’s damaging week continued with a 2-0 loss at home to Como that dents the Bianconeri ’s hopes of Champions League qualification.
The defeat comes days after Juve’s 5-2 defeat at Galatasaray in the first leg of the playoffs in this season’s Champions League. They welcome the Turkish team for the second leg on Wednesday.
Mergim Vojvoda scored early for Como with a shot that Michele Di Gregorio should have saved after getting his arm to ball. The chance came about after Weston McKennie lost the ball in midfield.
There were whistles from frustrated Juve fans at the break, and it did not get any better for their team after the restart. Lucas Da Cunha broke through to set up Maxence Caqueret for Como’s second in the 61st minute.
It was Juve’s third straight defeat across all competitions and their fifth game in a row without a win.
Luciano Spalletti’s team remained fifth, a point behind Roma before the capital club host Cremonese on Sunday. Como stayed sixth, a point behind Juve. Only the top four qualify for Europe’s premier competition.
Désiré Doué and Bradley Barcola scored in the first half as Paris Saint-Germain returned to the top of Ligue 1 with a 3-0 home victory over bottom side Metz following a slip-up by title rivals Lens at home to Monaco earlier on Saturday.
PSG have 54 points from 23 games, two more than second-placed Lens , who let a two-goal lead slip as they lost 3-2 to Monaco .
“We messed up,” Lens coach Pierre Sage said. “We had the victory in our hands, we were playing quite well in the second half and were pretty much focused on finishing the match in this way.
“The three goals we conceded were individual and collective errors. We still have 11 matches to play and the chance to achieve our goals.”