article_id: guardian_289
url: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2026/feb/27/champions-league-last-16-draw-manchester-city-chelsea-newcastle-liverpool-tottenham-arsenal
title: Champions League last-16 draw: Manchester City face Real Madrid, Chelsea get PSG
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The draw for the Champions League last 16 has produced some intriguing, heavyweight clashes featuring the renewal of old rivalries. If Manchester City’s meeting with Real Madrid arguably ranks foremost among them, Chelsea’s engagement with the holders, Paris Saint-Germain, and Newcastle’s duel with Barcelona are certainly not lacking in glamour.
Or, in the case of Chelsea and PSG in particular, edge. The tie is a repeat of last summer’s Club World Cup final in New Jersey, which Chelsea won 3-0 thanks to two goals from Cole Palmer and with a team under the management of Enzo Maresca.
“I’m so excited,” said Liam Rosenior, Maresca’s successor. “PSG are fantastic. I’ve experience of playing them in France [as Strasbourg manager] and I’ve always admired them. Luis Enrique has done a fantastic job there.
“These are the games you live for, games that you come into football for. It’s going to be a great tie.”
In Rosenior’s three fixtures against PSG at Strasbourg he won one, drew one and lost one.
Liverpool, meanwhile, will return to Istanbul as part of a tricky rematch with Galatasaray. Arne Slot’s side lost 1-0 in Turkey in a September league-phase meeting.
Arsenal have been handed a somewhat kinder draw in Bayer Leverkusen as they continue to compete on four fronts “We’re really excited,” said Mikel Arteta. “Let’s try to be there until the last stage of every competition. And then we’ll see what happens.”
A Tottenham team likely to be prioritising Premier League survival will meet Atlético Madrid, meaning a swift reunion for Conor Gallagher, who joined Spurs from the Spanish club in January . With all 16 teams provided with a route map to the semi-finals, Atlético’s Diego Simeone and Tottenham’s Igor Tudor also know their sides are playing for a quarter-final date against either Barcelona or Newcastle. Should Spurs keep progressing, a north London semi-final against Arsenal is a possibility.
If Arsenal overcome Leverkusen, they will meet the winner of Bodø/Glimt versus Sporting in the last eight while Liverpool could face Chelsea, which would no doubt reignite memories of their Champions League battles from previous decades.
Should Manchester City make it past Madrid in what will be a fifth Champions League knockout meeting in five years, Pep Guardiola could be set for a potential reunion with Bayern Munich on the basis that they overcome Atalanta, Italy’s remain representative in the competition, in the last 16.
There may be a great sense of deja vu about City facing Madrid in the Champions League but for Guardiola there is at least the fresh challenge of having to outwit Álvaro Arbeloa after he replaced Xabi Alonso as Real Madrid’s head coach in January. “It’s different because it’s Arbeloa there,” Guardiola said. “So we have to see; it will be a truly difficult game because of the quality they have.”
Newcastle’s meeting with Barcelona will reprise evocative memories of Sir Bobby Robson, who managed both clubs, as well as Faustino Asprilla’s treble at St James’ Park during a 3-2 Champions League win over the Spanish giants in 1997. The two sides also met at St James’ Park in September, with Hansi Flick’s side winning the league-phase encounter 2-1 thanks to two goals from Marcus Rashford .
In the Europa League, Nottingham Forest have been drawn against Midtjylland with the Danes doubtless bolstered by memories of their 3-2 win at the City Ground in the league phase in October. With Aston Villa, who face Lille, in the same side of the draw as Forest, there is no prospect of an all-English final, although they could clash in the semis.
Villa and Lille crossed swords in a Conference League quarter-final two years ago, with Villa prevailing follow a rather chaotic penalty shootout featuring some theatrics from Argentinian goalkeeper Emiliano Martínez.
Crystal Palace will face AEK Larnaca of Cyprus in the last 16 of the Conference League.