article_id: guardian_294
url: https://www.theguardian.com/books/2026/feb/09/us-judges-lawsuits-neil-gaiman
title: US judges dismiss lawsuits accusing Neil Gaiman of sexual assault
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Federal judges have dismissed three lawsuits accusing the bestselling fantasy author Neil Gaiman of sexually assaulting his children’s nanny in New Zealand four years ago.
Scarlett Pavlovich filed a lawsuit against Gaiman and his wife, Amanda Palmer, in Wisconsin in February 2025, accusing Gaiman of multiple sexual assaults while she worked as the family’s nanny in 2022. She filed lawsuits against Palmer in Massachusetts and in New York on the same day she filed the Wisconsin action.
Gaiman has a home in north-western Wisconsin, and Palmer lives in Massachusetts. Pavlovich moved to drop the New York lawsuit against Palmer in May, explaining in court documents that she filed an action in that state because Palmer had recently relocated from New York to Massachusetts and she was unsure which state had jurisdiction. US district judge Mary Kay Vyskocil in New York granted the request in June.
Pavlovich also dropped the portion of the Wisconsin lawsuit against Palmer in May, and US district judge James Peterson in Madison dismissed the rest of it in October, saying Pavlovich needed to pursue the case in New Zealand. US district judge Nathaniel Gorton in Boston threw out the Massachusetts filing on Friday on the same grounds.
Pavlovich’s attorneys did not respond to emails from the Associated Press seeking comment on Monday. Attorneys listed for Gaiman and Palmer did not respond to messages, either.
The AP does not identify people who say they have been sexually assaulted unless they publicly identify themselves. Pavlovich identified herself in an interview with New York magazine, which published an article in January 2025 detailing allegations of assault, abuse and coercion leveled by eight women.
Pavlovich alleged in her lawsuits that she was 22 and homeless when she met Palmer in Auckland in 2020. Palmer invited Pavlovich to the couple’s Waiheke Island home, and she eventually became their son’s nanny, according to the filings.
Pavlovich alleged in the lawsuits that Gaiman sexually assaulted her on the night they met in February 2022. The assaults continued, according to the filings, but she kept working for the couple because she was broke and homeless, and Gaiman had told her that he would help her writing career.
When she told Palmer about the assaults, Palmer told her that more than a dozen women had told her in the past that Gaiman had sexually abused them, according to the lawsuits. The assaults finally stopped when Pavlovich told Palmer that she was going to kill herself, according to the filings.
Pavlovich went on to allege that Palmer knew of Gaiman’s sexual desires and presented her to him, knowing he would assault her. She argued that Gaiman and Palmer violated federal human trafficking prohibitions and demanded at least $7m in damages
Gaiman released a statement after the New York magazine article was published, denying he had ever sexually abused anyone.
Gaiman’s attorneys argued in a motion to dismiss the Wisconsin lawsuit that Gaiman and Pavlovich had a brief personal relationship that involved “consensual physical intimacy”.
Police in New Zealand investigated her assault allegations and found them meritless, the motion says. The attorneys went on to argue that Pavlovich’s lawsuits were the culmination of a plan to smear Gaiman and that any legal disputes should be resolved in New Zealand, not the US.
Gaiman has authored numerous science fiction and fantasy works, including the novels American Gods, The Graveyard Book, Anansi Boys and the children’s dark fairy tale, Coraline.
His 2013 novel, The Ocean at the End of the Lane, won the National Book award in Britain.