article_id: guardian_314
url: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2026/feb/28/tv-tonight-bill-bailey-is-a-brilliant-tour-guide-in-vietnam
title: TV tonight: Bill Bailey is a brilliant tour guide in Vietnam
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Amid a deluge of celebrity travelogues, Bill Bailey is actually an entertaining guide as he explores Vietnam (“I’m thinking about a sandwich I had in 1982,” he confesses during a meditation). Bailey starts in Hoi An, an ancient international trading port, where he meets Chef Duc – an asylum seeker during the war who is now famous for his food. Then, it’s time to get a jazzy suit made at the tailor’s in time for the lantern festival. Hollie Richardson
In the series finale, Jade Thirlwall heroically checks her phone in for the Send to All challenge (with a surprise twist); Love Island’s Tasha Ghouri helps orchestrate a heartwarming Unexpected Star surprise, which involves Theatre Royal Drury Lane being transformed into a train station; and British-Italian singer-songwriter Jack Savoretti delivers a soulful live performance. Ali Catterall
Wolf Alice, Harry Styles and Rosalía are some of the acts performing at this year’s big pop night. Olivia Dean (also playing live) and Lola Young have the most nominations, and Pulp are up for group of the year – meaning Jarvis Cocker’s return for the first time since interrupting Michael Jackson in 1996. HR
Prof Alice continues her epic Roman journey with the exploration of an underground hotel in Parma. Then it’s on to Turin, where Italy’s ancient love affair with bread began. The carb-loading should fuel the episode’s final leg: a dramatic train ride across the Alps. Is this the route that Hannibal once took on elephant-back? Ellen E Jones
The latest TV gimmick designed to gull artists into doing a different live version of their biggest hits, Radio 2’s Piano Room has been in operation long enough to have its own considerable back catalogue. This compendium of performances includes Coldplay doing Paradise, Macy Gray reinterpreting I Try, and 10cc’s I’m Not in Love surviving the transition from lush pop to orchestral sweep. Jack Seale
The wit and warmth of Marian Keyes’s writing shines through this Irish drama about five sisters. Anna and her fiance Aidan are in hospital after the car accident, forcing Rachel to reconsider life and arrange a place at rehab. But when she arrives at Cloisters, she remains adamant that she’s not like the other addicts there. HR
Bring Her Back, 10.20pm, Sky Cinema Premiere
Danny and Michael Philippou’s grisly follow-up to their hit horror debut Talk to Me features a performance of malign nervous energy from Sally Hawkins that will give you the heebie-jeebies. Not to mention a scene involving teeth that may have you hiding behind your hands. Hawkins plays Laura, a foster parent – and grieving mother – who takes in Billy Barrett’s 17-year-old Andy and his partially sighted younger stepsister Piper (Sora Wong). She’s already taking care of Oliver (an uncanny Jonah Wren Phillips) who doesn’t speak and is clearly disturbed. What is the far-from-parental Laura up to (there’s a clue in the title) and why is she particularly interested in Piper? Simon Wardell
A Clockwork Orange, 12.10am, Sky Cinema Greats
From Anthony Burgess’s sharp dystopian novel, Stanley Kubrick crafted a bleakly comic film that is simultaneously prescient and dated. It’s centred on Alex (a career-defining role for Malcolm McDowell), a young gang leader who loves “ultraviolence” and Beethoven. The state attempts to rehabilitate him with experimental psychological conditioning – but you can’t keep a good droog down … The film’s sexual politics leave a lot to be desired but the 60s stab at futuristic design still has its charms. Viddy well! SW
Premier League Football: Bournemouth v Sunderland, 11am, TNT Sports 1 Followed by Leeds v Man City at 5pm on Sky Sports Main Event.
Super League Rugby: Warrington Wolves v Wakefield Trinity, 5.15pm, BBC Two At Halliwell Jones Stadium.
Super League Rugby: Hull Kingston Rovers v Leeds Rhinos, 11.30pm, Sky Sports Main Event The champions Hull KR, led by Elliot Minchella, play away from home, in Las Vegas.