article_id: guardian_323
url: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2026/feb/21/blind-date-freya-greg
title: Blind date: ‘The best thing about her? Super easy to talk to. And pretty’
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
What were you hoping for? Somebody friendly and kind, and an interesting chat.
First impressions? He seemed a little nervous but had a very warm and gentle energy. He also looks like Stephen from The Traitors.
What did you talk about? Hiking. Conservation. Bob Dylan. Ghosts. Matty Healy.
Most awkward moment? He approached a random group of men thinking they worked at the bar. They were all sat eating dinner.
Good table manners? 10/10, despite both ordering elaborate pasta dishes.
Best thing about Greg? We share a lot of interests. He also survived a black bear encounter, which is pretty impressive!
Blind date is Saturday’s dating column: every week, two 
strangers are paired up for dinner and drinks, and then spill the beans 
to us, answering a set of questions. This runs, with a photograph we 
take of each dater before the date, in Saturday magazine (in the
 UK) and online at theguardian.com every Saturday. It’s been running since 2009 – you can read all about how we put it together here . What questions will I be asked? We
 ask about age, location, occupation, hobbies, interests and the type of
 person you are looking to meet. If you do not think these questions 
cover everything you would like to know, tell us what’s on your mind.
Can I choose who I match with? No,
 it’s a blind date! But we do ask you a bit about your interests, 
preferences, etc – the more you tell us, the better the match is likely 
to be.
Can I pick the photograph? No, but don't worry: we'll choose the nicest ones.
What personal details will appear? Your first name, job and age.
How should I answer? Honestly
 but respectfully. Be mindful of how it will read to your date, and that
 Blind date reaches a large audience, in print and online.
Will I see the other person’s answers? No. We may edit yours and theirs for a range of reasons, including length, and we may ask you for more details.
Will you find me The One? We’ll try! Marriage! Babies!
Can I do it in my home town? Only if it’s in the UK. Many of our applicants live in London, but we would love to hear from people living elsewhere.
How to apply Email blind.date@theguardian.com
Would you introduce Greg to your friends? Sure.
Describe Greg in three words. Sincere, sweet and smart.
What do you think Greg made of you? I told him some ghost stories, so he probably thinks I’m batty.
Did you go on somewhere? To the pub for a crisp Diet Coke.
And … did you kiss? No.
If you could change one thing about the evening what would it be? I would have fasted for a week before to make space to eat even more delicious food.
Would you meet again? Why not!
What were you looking for? A relaxed, fun evening.
First impressions? Kind, warm and genuinely funny, with a shared sense of humour. I knew she was great when both of our eyes went straight to the tiramisu – which, to be fair, was incredible.
What did you talk about? Hiking trips. Chaotic SpareRoom stories. Live music.
Most awkward moment? Attempting to simultaneously avoid getting tagliatelle over my white T-shirt and hold a conversation.
Good table manners? Yes!
Best thing about Freya? Super-easy to talk to. And pretty.
Would you introduce Freya to your friends? Absolutely.
Describe Freya in three words. Curious, adventurous and vibrant.
What do you think Freya made of you? A bit chaotic? There were definitely a few “why am I saying this on a first date?” moments.
Did you go on somewhere? A pub, where I approached a group of guys eating chips thinking they were bartenders. It was pretty bad.
And … did you kiss? Just a hug, then raced out the tube door before they closed.
If you could change one thing about the evening what would it be? A less rushed goodbye would’ve been nice, but that’s all!
Would you meet again? Yes! I want to hear her ghost stories again – not on a screeching train this time.
Freya and Greg ate at Rossella , London NW5. Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com