article_id: guardian_48
url: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2026/feb/28/blind-date-brigitte-jack
title: Blind date: ‘I was hoping for a lovely time, a fancy dinner and to meet the love of my life. I got two out of three’
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
What were you hoping for? Great food, great company and hopefully an evening that could be the beginning of something.
First impressions? She made a joke about not being able to find the right door to the venue and I admitted I’d had the same problem, and straight away we were laughing. She came across as honest and quick to laugh and the conversation just flowed.
What did you talk about? Whether Hamnet was emotionally manipulative (we thought not). Travel, Heated Rivalry and the Wheel of Time.
Most awkward moment? We went for another drink at a bar I suggested, but the music was so loud that we couldn’t hear each other and left after one drink. Sorry Brigitte.
Good table manners? Impeccable.
Blind date is Saturday’s dating column: every week, two 
strangers are paired up for dinner and drinks, and then spill the beans 
to us, answering a set of questions. This runs, with a photograph we 
take of each dater before the date, in Saturday magazine (in the
 UK) and online at theguardian.com every Saturday. It’s been running since 2009 – you can read all about how we put it together here . What questions will I be asked? We
 ask about age, location, occupation, hobbies, interests and the type of
 person you are looking to meet. If you do not think these questions 
cover everything you would like to know, tell us what’s on your mind.
Can I choose who I match with? No,
 it’s a blind date! But we do ask you a bit about your interests, 
preferences, etc – the more you tell us, the better the match is likely 
to be.
Can I pick the photograph? No, but don't worry: we'll choose the nicest ones.
What personal details will appear? Your first name, job and age.
How should I answer? Honestly
 but respectfully. Be mindful of how it will read to your date, and that
 Blind date reaches a large audience, in print and online.
Will I see the other person’s answers? No. We may edit yours and theirs for a range of reasons, including length, and we may ask you for more details.
Will you find me The One? We’ll try! Marriage! Babies!
Can I do it in my home town? Only if it’s in the UK. Many of our applicants live in London, but we would love to hear from people living elsewhere.
How to apply Email blind.date@theguardian.com
Best thing about Brigitte? She seemed so relaxed and easygoing, and came across as kind and generous.
Would you introduce Brigitte to your friends? Definitely.
Describe Brigitte in three words Kind, funny and chatty.
What do you think Brigitte made of you? I managed to get a few laughs from Brigitte, and most of them were at my expense, so I hope she at least found me endearing if nothing else.
Did you go on somewhere? We did but perhaps I should have found somewhere a little quieter.
And … did you kiss? No, but we had a really nice hug.
If you could change one thing about the evening what would it be? A three-bus journey home wasn’t ideal.
Would you meet again? We have exchanged numbers but it might just be as friends.
What were you hoping for? A lovely time and a fancy dinner (also to meet the love of my life). I got two out of three, so it was definitely a success.
First impressions? His kind face and warmth quickly put me at ease.
What did you talk about? Favourite landscapes, board games, sport documentaries, making friends in your 20s and 30s, the onset of wedding season – Jack seems to be in the midst of it, but it hasn’t hit me yet.
Most awkward moment? None.
Good table manners? Brilliant.
Best thing about Jack? He’s a great storyteller and equally good at asking questions.
Would you introduce Jack to your friends? Yes, for sure.
Describe Jack in three words Engaging, inquisitive and kind.
What do you think Jack made of you? I think he thought I was nice and friendly, and easy to talk to.
Did you go on somewhere? A pint round the corner.
And … did you kiss? Nope.
If you could change one thing about the evening what would it be? I wouldn’t change anything. A romantic connection would have been nice, but Jack was lovely company.
Marks out of 10? 10 for being great company and a lovely night.
Would you meet again? As friends for sure.
Brigitte and Jack ate at Don’t Tell Dad , London NW6. Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com