article_id: guardian_8
url: https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2026/feb/26/afternoon-update-thursday-ntwnfb
title: Afternoon Update: Grace Tame takes aim at PM’s ‘difficult’ answer; Jacinda Ardern moves to Australia; and rejection sensitive dysphoria
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Anthony Albanese was asked to describe Grace Tame in one word, and chose “difficult”. The prime minister has claimed he meant to describe her “difficult life” .
But the 2021 Australian of the Year and advocate for sexual abuse survivors hit back, saying “we all know what you meant” and suggesting Albanese was “quoting” the former prime minister Scott Morrison.
Tame had earlier reshared a social media post to her Instagram story, saying: “‘Difficult’ is the misogynist’s code for a woman who won’t comply. History tends to call her ‘courageous’.” Albanese, who also used that word to describe her advocacy, apologised for “any misinterpretation” of his one-word answer.
Jacinda Ardern living and working in Australia after move from US
New NT administrator apologises for ‘racist’ posts as MPs plan to boycott swearing-in ceremony
Australia advises dependants of officials in Israel and Lebanon to leave as US-Iran tensions increase
Blaring sirens on smartphones to warn Australians of major disasters under emergency alerts overhaul
Qantas unveils bumper $1.46bn profit as Australian travellers shrug off cost-of-living pressures
Christina Applegate reveals she is largely confined to bed due to multiple sclerosis
Each day the Guardian’s picture editors select photographs from around the world – such as this one of a worker preparing vermicelli in Hyderabad, Pakistan.
“I keep telling them, ‘You do understand, we don’t have a home’ – and they always say, ‘Yes mum, we know.’”
For the past two years, single mother-of-six Loma Bropho has tried “every avenue” to secure a rental property in Perth. In that time, she and her children have been homeless, either sleeping in a car or relying on family to put a roof over their heads.
Exclusive: the Australian children of IS families speak to the Guardian
This week, journalist William Christou made the long journey to al-Roj camp in north-eastern Syria where 2,000 families are detained – including 23 children and 11 women from Australia with links to IS.
These Australian citizens attempted to leave the camp last week with the hopes of making it to their homeland, but were forced to turn back. They are now at the centre of a political storm.
Christou tells Nour Haydar about how he met the children , the conditions they live in and why they want to come home.
Listen to the episode here .
Sorry your browser does not support audio - but you can download here and listen $ https://audio.guim.co.uk/2026/02/25-19241-FS_CHILDREN_THURS.mp3
Rejection sensitive dysphoria makes rejection, teasing or criticism feel unbearable, often prompting a strong physical reaction. Emily Retter has spoken to sufferers to explore a condition that is only just starting to be understood.
Today’s starter word is: ANON . You have five goes to get the longest word including the starter word. Play Wordiply .
If you would like to receive this Afternoon Update to your email inbox every weekday, sign up here , or start your day with a curated breakdown of the key stories you need to know with our Morning Mail newsletter . You can follow the latest in US politics by signing up for This Week in Trumpland .