article_id: cnn_10
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/24/weather/bomb-cyclone-storm-snow-winds-northeast
title: Power outages, travel troubles and bitter cold plague Northeast in wake of historic bomb cyclone blizzard
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Thousands in the Northeast remained without power amid freezing temperatures Tuesday as people from that region and the mid-Atlantic dug out from extreme snowfall — including more than 2 feet in several states — from the previous two days and faced continuing travel disruptions including hundreds of canceled flights.
Temperatures in much of the Northeast are not expected to climb above freezing Tuesday, so snow melting may be limited.
The storm﻿, which began Sunday night, hit bomb cyclone status in the early hours of Monday as it strengthened extremely quickly, ramping winds to hurricane-force gusts , intensifying snow bands and knocking out power to hundreds of thousands. Local officials echoed state of emergency declarations and issued travel bans while the tens of millions of people under blizzard warnings hunkered down.
Of the more than 225,000 customers still without power in the region Tuesday night, more than 190,000 were in Massachusetts, the vast majority of whom were customers of the Eversource utility company in southeastern Massachusetts, including Cape Cod, according to PowerOutage.us .
“It will take days” to turn on the lights for every Massachusetts customer, an Eversource official said.
“It is a multiday restoration,” Doug Foley, Eversource’s president of electric operations in Massachusetts, said at a news conference Tuesday. “The last couple customers, unfortunately, will be a couple days out.”
Those who do dig out of the snow may have trouble going anywhere despite easing travel bans , with public transit delays , icy road conditions and flight cancellations across the region.
As of 8 p.m. ET, just over 2,200 US flights had been canceled Tuesday, according to FlightAware . The vast majority of those flights had been scheduled to arrive at or depart from the four major northeastern airports — Newark; Boston; and LaGuardia and John F. Kennedy in New York — which were still recovering Tuesday from the storm.
Among those hoping to fly out Tuesday was Alyssa Myers, whose flight from Philadelphia to Albuquerque on Sunday afternoon was canceled. She rebooked and canceled several times.
“If you don’t have to go, cancel the trip, get the refund, wait for warmer weather,” Myers told CNN’s Danny Freeman at Philadelphia International Airport.
The historic storm yielded numerous impacts as schools across the region closed, both the US House and Senate postponed this week’s first vote series, major train routes were adjusted , public transit was paused and even the popular food delivery service DoorDash suspended its operations in the country’s biggest city.
Though the storm dwindled by Monday evening, a forecast for more looms. Here’s what you need to know:
CNN’s August Phillips, Aaron Cooper, Holly Yan, Alaa Elassar, Zoe Sottile, Hanna Park and meteorologists Mary Gilbert, Briana Waxman and Chris Dolce contributed to this report.