article_id: cnn_106
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/25/us/5-things-pm-february-25-trnd
title: Top general’s balancing act, rattled workers, ‘SuperAger’ brains: Catch up on the day’s stories
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
👋 Welcome to 5 Things PM! Scientists have discovered a key to staying mentally fit in old age. This is how the brains of “SuperAgers” — people who have razor-sharp minds in their 80s and 90s — differ from others.
Here’s what else you might have missed during your busy day.
Gen. Dan Caine has been drafting military options for a potential US strike on Iran. He’s attempting to walk a tightrope by avoiding conflict with the notoriously mercurial President Donald Trump while still providing professional guidance.
Astronaut Mike Fincke confirmed that he was the crew member whose “medical event” led to an early exit from the International Space Station. It was the first time NASA cut short an ISS staffing mission for health reasons.
Anthropic is updating its Claude AI helper to perform better at tasks for jobs in design, human resources and wealth management. It’s also enabling the tool to work in applications like Excel and PowerPoint. People are worried .
Symbols carved into tools and figurines by Stone Age humans more than 40,000 years ago could be an ancient precursor to writing . Researchers analyzed thousands of crosses, dots, notches and lines.
Lift ticket prices add up quickly, and some people find themselves unable to afford a ski trip. These low-key US resorts offer fun on the slopes without breaking the bank .
Thai police went undercover as a lion dance crew at a Lunar New Year temple fair to catch a suspected serial burglar. The 33-year-old man was wanted for repeatedly breaking into a senior officer’s home, stealing valuables worth 2 million baht ($64,000).
🦁 Grrreat disguise! Thai police dressed as lion dancers at a Lunar New Year celebration to catch a suspected serial burglar. The man was wanted for repeatedly breaking into an officer’s home.
💀 A saintly skeleton: Nearly 800 years after he died, the remains of St. Francis of Assisi are on public display for the first time .
EDITOR’S NOTE: Interested in exclusive stories like these? Choose a plan
💬 Which lawmaker was escorted out of the State of the Union address for holding a sign that said “Black people aren’t apes!”? ﻿A. Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota B. Rep. Al Green of Texas C. Rep. Kweisi Mfume of Maryland D. Rep. Maxine Waters of California ⬇️ Scroll down for the answer.
✅ Most popular in yesterday’s newsletter : Yosemite’s ‘lava waterfall’ draws large crowds
🧠 Quiz answer: B. Green was removed from the House chamber just minutes into Trump’s speech Tuesday night.
👋 We’ll see you tomorrow.
📧 Check out all of CNN’s newsletters .
Today’s edition of 5 Things PM was edited and produced by CNN’s Kimberly Richardson and Chris Good.