article_id: cnn_112
url: https://www.cnn.com/markets/stocks/PFG
title: Principal Financial Group, Inc.
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
PFG is trading near the top of its 52-week range and above its 200-day simple moving average.
The price of PFG shares has held flat since the market last closed. This is a 0.00% change.
The stock has since risen $0.16 in after-hours trading.
Principal Financial Group, Inc. engages in the investment management offering business. It offers financial products and services to businesses, individuals, and institutional clients. It operates its business through the following segments: Retirement and Income Solutions, Principal Asset Management, and Benefits and Protection. The Retirement and Income Solutions Segment offers a comprehensive portfolio of products and services for retirement savings along with select products for retirement income. The Principal Asset Management segment provides global investment solutions to institutional, retirement, retail and high net worth investors in the U.S. and select emerging markets. The Benefits and Protection segment includes selling individual life insurance products. The company was founded by Edward A. Temple in 1879 and is headquartered in Des Moines, IA.
A market capitalization between $10 billion and $200 billion places PFG in the large capitalization  category.
No recent press releases are available for PFG
Total Revenue decreased 3.11% since last year and increased 24.31% since last quarter.
Net Income decreased 24.56% since last year and increased 141.81% since last quarter.
EPS decreased 21.36% since last year and increased 144.85% since last quarter.
PFG's competitors are included in the Finance sector and Investment Managers group
A market capitalization between $10 billion and $200 billion places PFG in the large capitalization  category.
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes. All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor’s Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play.
Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.