article_id: cnn_12
url: https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2026/02/us/cnn-5-things-news-quiz-feb-27-sec/
title: Weekly News Quiz: February 27, 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute
Claudia Greco/Reuters
Kenny Holson/Pool/Getty Images
By Alexandra Banner and Kenneth Uzquiano
A presidential address. A grim anniversary. A cartel kingpin. What do you remember from the week that was?
Keep up with the news you need. Sign up for the 5 Things newsletter.
Many US tourists were stranded in Mexico this week after a wave of violence erupted following the death of drug lord Nemesio “El Mencho” Oseguera.
President Trump’s State of the Union address lasted 1 hour and 47 minutes. That beat his own record — which he set last year — for the longest address to Congress on record since at least 1964.
The 2026 Winter Olympics concluded on February 22 with a grand closing ceremony in Verona, Italy. At the end of the show, the baton was passed to France, which will host the next Winter Games in 2030.
The Northeast is reeling from a historic bomb cyclone that swept the region overnight Sunday and throughout Monday, dumping more than two feet of snow across several states.
Ukraine on Tuesday marked four years since Russia launched its invasion, a somber milestone in a war with no clear end in sight.
The Department of Homeland Security reversed its decision to suspend the TSA's PreCheck program after initially causing confusion by announcing a temporary halt .
The 2026 BAFTA Film Awards — Britain's equivalent of the Oscars — recently took place in London.
Efforts to get NASA’s historic moon journey off the ground have stalled once again as engineers navigate a new problem with the rocket. The space agency is now targeting no earlier than April to launch Artemis II .
Saturn has 274 moons, far more than any other planet in our solar system. Scientists recently said they unlocked key insights about Saturn’s largest moon, Titan, including how it came to be.
A mother-and-daughter team of scientists has identified the world's largest known coral colony , found on the Great Barrier Reef off the coast of Australia.
Test your knowledge with our free collection of games and puzzles—right here on CNN.