article_id: cnn_126
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/06/politics/jeffrey-epstein-genetic-test-joseph-thakuria-harvard
title: Epstein paid for novel genetic testing in apparent effort to explore extending life, new emails show
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein paid for genetic testing in an apparent bid to harness his own genetic material for regenerative medicine – which is aimed at repairing the body by developing new tissues and organs as the old ones wear out – according to newly released emails in the Epstein files.
Several years after Epstein was convicted of soliciting prostitution, including of a minor, in 2008, he paid for novel tests from a doctor at one of America’s preeminent hospitals and explored creating stem cells central to immunity and healing.
The researcher, Joseph Thakuria, was at the time a senior doctor at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) in Boston and affiliated with a large-scale genomic studies project at Harvard Medical School.
In a statement to CNN, Thakuria said Epstein was also enrolled in the Harvard Personal Genome Project, a massive public global database of genetic information from volunteers for scientists and researchers to learn more about traits and genes.
Thakuria has not been publicly linked to Epstein before and is not accused of any wrongdoing.
A Harvard representative said MGH is an affiliate of Harvard, but Thakuria was not directly employed by Harvard or the Wyss Institute, which oversees the Personal Genome Project. MGH has no record of approving Thakuria for studies described in the Epstein emails.
Thakuria left the hospital in 2022, an MGH spokesperson said.
Among the documents in the Epstein files released by the Justice Department is a proposal that Thakuria sent Epstein in February 2014, appealing to him to fund a private project that would sequence his patients’ genomes to learn about genetic drivers for their diseases. In the proposal, he also raises options for genetic investigations specifically for Epstein.
A few months later, in June, Thakuria sent Epstein an extensive invoice for a range of projects that included an initial $2,000 investment for sequencing part of Epstein’s genome. The invoice included an estimated cost for “personalized longevity studies” that proposed using gene editing. The invoice indicated that Epstein gave a saliva sample.
The initial investment included $1,000 to sequence a portion of his genome known as the exome, and $1,000 to sequence fibroblasts, which are cells found in connective tissue such as skin and muscles, and that have been used in a relatively new field of research aimed at reversing aging.
Epstein’s staff sent a $2,000 check the same day.
“Mr. Epstein was enrolled in the Personal Genome Project, which would study his genetic predisposition to various health conditions. At one point, a $2,000 check was provided to cover DNA sequencing,” Thakuria said in the statement.
“I was a physician-researcher and he [Epstein] was a research subject,” he added. “We also had early discussions about his potentially funding research, but that never materialized.”
“I feel terrible about what his victims went through, and I regret at that time not knowing more about his background and the extent of his crimes,” Thakuria said.
Part of the proposal involved editing Epstein’s stem cells “to introduce mutations in culture believed to increase longevity,” using the then-novel gene editing technology CRISPR, Thakuria wrote.
“I’m only offering this to Jeffrey. Because of all the labor involved, there’s simply not enough bandwidth to offer this to more than a handful of people right now,” he added.
The invoice gave a range of options for future research such as creating new stem cells starting at $10,000, and broader longevity studies that included other patients, and  indicated that it could cost “ $11,400 for his [Epstein’s] whole genome ($21,000 if he wanted to include both of his parents; not sure if this is even feasible)” to be sequenced.
The full breadth of the projects proposed as described in the invoice would have cost $193,400.
CNN did not find a record of Epstein paying for those services, but emails continued between Thakuria, Epstein and his assistants until at least 2015. In these, Epstein’s assistants sought to follow up on Thakuria’s initial work. At one point, Epstein became annoyed with Thakuria for delays and threatened to report him to his bosses if results did not come quickly.
Epstein died by suicide in 2019 while awaiting trial on federal sex-trafficking charges.
The disgraced financier had long been interested in gene editing. Through his now-defunct foundation, Epstein donated to the World Transhumanist Association, now called Humanity+, as the New York Times first reported in 2019. Humanity+ advocates for “technology and evidence-based science to expand human capabilities” and reverse aging.
Epstein also reportedly had discussions with scientists where he mulled using his own genes to seed a new human race.
The most recently released emails shed new light on Epstein’s relationships with top scientists   in the field of genomics research and raise questions about how some may have sought funding from him.
In his statement to CNN, Thakuria said he was introduced to Epstein by George Church, a high-profile Harvard genomics researcher, as a potential research subject for the Personal Genome Project.
Church, who has pioneered gene editing with the then-novel CRISPR technology — used to cut, add and modify specific genetic sequences — has previously been associated with Epstein, who emailed with him frequently and donated funds to his research. Church apologized in 2019 for his continued association with Epstein, calling it “nerd tunnel vision” in an interview with STAT .
Church, who has not been accused of any wrongdoing related to Epstein, did not return a request for comment from CNN. The spokesperson for Harvard referred CNN to Church’s remarks from 2019 in response to questions about him.
Some of what Thakuria described in his invoice was opaque. The largest single item in the invoice was $160,000 for research he called “The Venus Project.”
“Jeffrey and [I] briefly discussed a genomic research studying [sic] I’m dubbing the Venus project (he’ll know what this),” Thakuria wrote in the June 2014 invoice . “I can do this for him but doing this work would be greatly aided by having some good bioinformatic infrastructure.”
“[Epstein] mentioned 200 participants being in this project — I can deliver on this ‘Venus’ research,” he added.
In his statement to CNN, Thakuria said the project was “an idea of Mr. Epstein that was very preliminary and never went anywhere.”
“He was interested in the genetics of facial features. There was no funding, and no research.”