article_id: cnn_152
url: https://edition.cnn.com/2026/02/24/politics/video/al-green-sign-apes-state-of-the-union-vrtc
title: Rep. Green escorted out of House chamber during State of the Union
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Rep. Al Green was escorted out of the House chamber just minutes into President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address after holding up a sign reading “Black people aren’t apes.” Earlier this month, Trump shared and then deleted a racist video depicting former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama as apes in a jungle.
Rep. Al Green was escorted out of the House chamber just minutes into President Donald Trump’s State of the Union address after holding up a sign reading “Black people aren’t apes.” Earlier this month, Trump shared and then deleted a racist video depicting former President Barack Obama and former first lady Michelle Obama as apes in a jungle.
Britney Spears was arrested Wednesday night, according to information from Ventura County, California authorities. Booking information obtained by CNN shows that the pop superstar was stopped by the California Highway Patrol around 9:30 p.m. Thursday and later released.
The “Brady Bunch” house used in exterior shots of the iconic family sitcom gained historic landmark status in Los Angeles.
Lou Holtz, the College Football Hall of Fame coach who led Notre Dame to the 1988 national championship and won 249 games over 33 seasons at six schools, has died. He was 89.
Taiwan hosts the Yanshui Beehive Fireworks Festival annually. Thousands of fireworks fly into crowds of attendees, who hope the sparks will cast off bad luck at the start of the new lunar year.
CNN's Dana Bash sits down with Jack Schlossberg, grandson of former President John F. Kennedy and candidate in New York’s 12th Congressional district, to discuss the recent death of his sister Tatiana Schlossberg. "She’s still with me, she’s out there campaigning with me,” Schlossberg told CNN. Watch the full story on CNN.com/allaccess .