article_id: cnn_161
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/25/us/video/us-trump-sotu-surprise-nugget-hnk-vrtc-digvid
title: ‘Surprise nuggets’ during Trump’s State of the Union address
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
From a political prisoner's emotional reunion with his niece to awarding the Medal of Honor to a 100-year-old veteran, here are President Trump's surprise moments from the State of the Union that captivated his audience. CNN's Kristen Holmes reports.
From a political prisoner's emotional reunion with his niece to awarding the Medal of Honor to a 100-year-old veteran, here are President Trump's surprise moments from the State of the Union that captivated his audience. CNN's Kristen Holmes reports.
Approval for President Donald Trump’s massive East Wing ballroom project from the NCPC has been delayed after it received over 32,000 comments from the public overwhelmingly opposing the construction.
CNN’s Dana Bash offers a deeper look into Sen. Markwayne Mullin (R‑OK) after President Donald Trump said Thursday on social media he was firing Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and would name the senator to replace her.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth emphasized on Thursday that there is “no shortage of American will” in the fight against Iran, and that the US would remember the six fallen US service members by “rededicating ourselves” to the fight, while adding that the US has "no shortage of munitions."
Sen. Mullin told reporters Thursday afternoon that he’s spoken with President Trump but said they “still have to communicate” and “get on the same page.” The president had not indicated publicly if he intended to nominate Mullin to serve as a permanent replacement.
CNN's Jake Tapper reports DHS Secretary Kristi Noem has been fired by President Donald Trump. Noem is being replaced by Republican Senator Markwayne Mullin of Oklahoma.
Jack Schlossberg, grandson of former President John F. Kennedy and candidate in New York’s 12th Congressional district, reveals what it was like to learn about his family in school.
In a CNN exclusive, two sources briefed on the operation say Iranian bombers came within minutes of striking the largest US military base in the Middle East before Qatari fighter jets intercepted them. CNN’s Mostafa Salem reports.
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is on his way to Iran’s capital, Tehran, as Israel and the US continue their aerial campaign against the country. CNN is operating in Iran only with government permission.
US Central Command released a video on social media which includes footage of what appears to be its military operations targeting Iran.
Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney said he "can never categorically rule out participation" in the US-Israeli war with Iran after previously saying Canada would not take part.
Former Vice President Mike Pence told CNN’s Kaitlan Collins that President Donald Trump made the right decision to strike Iran.
A North Carolina man protesting US military action in Iran was forcibly removed from a Senate Armed Services subcommittee hearing and charged after a chaotic scene that left both him and several officers injured, according to US Capitol Police.
CNN's Jake Tapper debunks Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth's suggestion that the press prominently covers service member casualties to “make the president look bad.”
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt defended criticism of the media made by Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth, telling CNN during today’s White House press briefing that it was a “fact” that the media aimed to paint President Donald Trump in a bad light.