article_id: cnn_162
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/17/us/monowi-nebraska-sweet-valley-high
title: I found a piece of my Kenyan childhood in America’s smallest town
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I walked into a tiny library in America’s smallest town and froze.
A cardboard box stacked with books sat near the entrance of the converted storage shed. Inside, familiar faces on pastel covers stared back at me: Elizabeth and Jessica Wakefield, the fresh-faced twins of Sweet Valley High . Sunlight streamed in from a window, brightening their puffed blonde hair.
In Monowi, a town with only one resident, I’d unexpectedly swung open a door to my past more than 8,000 miles away.
As a teen in the Kenyan city of Nakuru, I had devoured the Sweet Valley High books with a flashlight under the covers in the room I shared with my two sisters. The young adult novels, popular in the 1980s and 1990s, centered around the lives of the sisters in Sweet Valley, a fictional suburb in Southern California.
I’d immersed myself in the twins’ escapades as they navigated high school romances, rivalries and other petty dramas, never imagining I’d one day step into their world.
And now, nearly three decades later, here I stood, the books gazing back at me. Older, wiser and shouldering the weight of adulthood, I was reconnecting with my younger self through these books – and understanding for the first time how far I’d come.
Those books introduced me to a vision of American teenage life and taught me the rhythms and idioms of American English, nuances that would later replace my Britishisms and shape my career as a journalist.
Finding them last fall in a ghost town in the Midwest felt like stepping into a time warp. For a moment, I was a teenager again, reliving my relationship with the Wakefield twins — in the unlikeliest of places.
Only this time, the Wakefield twins hadn’t drawn me into their world. I was already living in it.
Monowi, population one, is the smallest incorporated place in the US. Its only resident, Elsie Eiler, 92, serves as mayor, sheriff, librarian and the only worker at the town’s sole business, the Monowi Tavern.
Last fall, while visiting my cousin in Omaha, she and I decided on a whim to make the three-hour trip to the town. I’d been intrigued ever since I read about it in a travel article.
We piled into her family’s white SUV and gazed out the windows as her husband drove past vast cornfields, animal pastures, grain elevators and weathered barns. In the backseat, my son, niece and nephew chatted about sports and commiserated over their shared dislike of math.
When the roadside sign reading MONOWI 1 (“population 1”) appeared, we slowed down and craned our necks out of the windows. We pulled up at the tavern, where Eiler was alone at the bar watching the University of Nebraska football team play Michigan.
As we munched on fries she made in the back kitchen, she recounted some of the town’s history. She started Rudy’s Library in a converted shed steps from the tavern in honor of her husband, who died of lung cancer in 2004, leaving her as the town’s only resident.
The tiny white library building is filled with donated books, most of them by American authors. Anyone can take a book and return it on their own time.
Standing inside, it felt like I was back in the corner of my local library in Nakuru as a teen. Except for a family tragedy – and my escape into American youth novels – my high school years in the 1990s have always been a blur.
My dad died when I was a freshman in high school, leaving my mom alone to raise five children. Without my father’s booming presence, our house was strangely quiet. I spent most of my free time in my room reading British and American fiction from our local library. My mom struggled with her new role as the sole breadwinner and spent many evenings crying alone in her bedroom. Sometimes, I heard her soft sobs behind the locked door.
Feeling helpless, I vanished into the Wakefield twins’ sun-drenched Southern California fantasy. Elizabeth was principled and compassionate while Jessica was carefree, outgoing and manipulative, and their clashes and crushes became a welcome distraction. I plastered the walls above my bed with magazine cutouts of the Pacific Ocean beaches and cozy, pastel-colored teenagers’ rooms – the way I imagined theirs to be.
My bedside table was stacked with young-adult novels from popular series such as Secret Seven, Famous Five and Sweet Valley High. Long before streaming services and social media algorithms, American teen culture found its way to me, thousands of miles away, one paperback at a time.
We didn’t get a lot of American TV shows in Nakuru back then – mostly Mexican soap operas – so the books were my window into life in the US. (To get a taste of American TV, we had to rent VCR tapes of sitcoms like “Martin” and “The Golden Girls.”)
The twins’ carefree, privileged lives felt worlds apart from mine. I walked three miles to school every morning while they rode in Jeeps, Porsches and Fiat Spiders. On weekends they twirled at varsity dances while I sat in church with a grieving mom who’d turned to faith for comfort. Their only worries seemed to revolve around romance, popularity and peer pressure.
My schoolteachers introduced me to a mix of African and Kenyan classics by such authors as Chinua Achebe and Ngũgĩ wa Thiong’o. But our library’s youth section was stacked with American teen novels and not much else.
In the idyllic world of the Wakefield twins, grief barely existed. For a few hours, I could burrow into a book and distract myself from worrying about my mom.
They gave me small moments of joy. My sisters teased me about my muffled giggles under the covers in the middle of the night.
A couple from Texas visiting my mom’s church changed everything.
I was almost done with high school when they stopped by our home one evening after services. They offered to help me move to the US for college to ease my mother’s financial burden. She smiled more brightly than I’d seen since my dad died.
I arrived in Louisiana more than two decades ago on a student visa to attend Grambling State University and discovered it was nothing like the extravagant, lily-White world of Sweet Valley High. In Grambling, almost all the residents were Black and social life seemed slower and more grounded: church potlucks, crawfish boils and small-town festivals – not beach parties and fancy gatherings.
Teens were not cruising around town in flashy cars. It was my first lesson on how fiction can bridge worlds and yet distort reality.
After college, I got a job in the Los Angeles suburb of Riverside. As I watched surfers at the beach or cruised under swaying palm trees in my red Toyota Celica, sunroof open, I thought of the Wakefield twins and smiled.
But as I moved around for my career – to Baltimore and then to Atlanta — the books largely faded from my mind.
Discovering them years later in a tiny town in rural Nebraska felt like a surreal but serendipitous reunion.
Inside a room barely big enough for four people, I was revisiting Sweet Valley High. Not online in a fit of nostalgic Googling – but by chance, in the tiniest town in America. As I held the faded, cracked paperbacks, I realized how much they’d shaped my life.
And as I flipped through the worn pages in Monowi, the one-resident town felt less lonely. The Wakefield twins’ sagas had crossed eras, borders and cultures — again.
But this time, I wasn’t an outsider looking in.  Having lived in a version of the twins’ world, I understood it without the wide-eyed naivety of a teenage girl. I was more aware of what those shiny stories left out.
I now recognized that the books reflected White, privileged experiences and barely addressed challenges facing American high schoolers such as race relations, mental health problems and economic inequality. For a Black woman raising a Black son in the US, that disconnect now feels especially striking.
Before leaving Monowi, I signed the library’s guest book with a simple thank you.
And as the MONOWI 1 sign got smaller in my rearview mirror, I thought about how our stories quietly shape us, sometimes for a lifetime.
Long before I got a passport, the Sweet Valley High books had offered me an intoxicating glimpse into a bigger, shinier life. They made me dream beyond my hometown. But they also taught me that life is never as perfect as it seems.
I glanced at my 8-year-old son. One day, he’ll go to high school. For him, the world of Sweet Valley High won’t seem as foreign. Growing up in an Atlanta suburb, he’s already living a Southern, less idealized version of it.
I like to think that as a teenager, he’ll have more diverse options than Sweet Valley High for escapist entertainment.
One day, if his world crumbles in that uniquely teenage way, I hope he finds something that offers him the same quiet solace those books gave me. I hope it’ll be something that keeps him up at night, stifling laughter. Something that transforms his sadness into curiosity and makes him feel less lonely.
The Sweet Valley High books didn’t just show me another world. On that day, inside a dusty, battered box in a forgotten little town, they reintroduced me to a younger version of myself I’d long forgotten.
In that moment, every detour, every loss and every lesson of my life seemed to fall into place. I saw with new clarity the long road that had brought me here.