article_id: cnn_165
url: https://transcripts.cnn.com/show/sitroom/date/2026-02-25/segment/04
title: CNN.com - Transcripts
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Return to Transcripts main page
Interview With Rep. Katherine Clark (D-MA); Surgeon General Nominee on Capitol Hill; Trump Clashes With Democrats at State of the Union. Aired 11:30a-12p ET
Aired February 25, 2026 - 11:30   ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
[11:30:00] PAMELA BROWN, CNN HOST:  Right. DAVID URBAN, CNN SENIOR POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  All reporting. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  He said, however... (CROSSTALK) BROWN:  Beginning of the segment. KAREN FINNEY, CNN POLITICAL COMMENTATOR:  People aren't feeling it. URBAN:  However, people aren't feeling it, right? FINNEY:  Right. URBAN:  So there's that disconnect. Republicans need to do a good job of connecting the dots to say, here's what's coming over the horizon. Stick with us through Q1 through Q2. Remember, the election's not until the fall. The economy's going to improve. BROWN:  Let me just ask you, though, just to jump in. I mean, he is really struggling when it comes to independents. FINNEY:  Yes. BROWN:  Do you think he moved the needle at all in last night's speech with some of the policies he's mentioned, such as lowering drug prices? He had a woman there who's getting a fertility drug at a much lower cost now, right, the no taxes on tips, some of the things that people might be feeling. (CROSSTALK) FINNEY:  Let me just share something from my own family. I have a family member. Medicaid benefits have been cut. Grocery prices still too high. Gas prices still too high. It's been a very cold winter, so energy prices still... (CROSSTALK) FINNEY:  So my point -- and the organizations in the community that normally help fill those gaps have been cut by one big, beautiful, ugly bill. So point being, it's the layering on of all these things. So, sure, maybe you're going to get a little infusion here and a little infusion there. But the question is, what does it add up to in the money that people have in their pockets? BROWN:  And what did you think about that moment when the president spent parts of his speech berating Democrats, calling them crazy? I mean, has the State of the Union addressed loss some of its gravitas? URBAN:  Oh, I mean, I think people were yelling at him. I mean, he may have been yelling back at people, right? Listen, I'm not a fan of anybody yelling at anybody during the State of the Union, whether it's Democrats, whether it's Republicans. I think you go to the State of the Union, you should show up whether you like the guy or not. You should sit there politely. This is what -- there's some decorum. Look, my friend John Fetterman had a suit on yesterday. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  No, yes, he's a great guy. I am friends with John Fetterman. I think he's a great guy. I have great respect for him. He showed up. He was respectful. You show up, you listen. You may not agree. Elizabeth Warren found something she could clap about in that, right? FINNEY:  Oh, my gosh. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  She did. She found something she could applaud about. (CROSSTALK) FINNEY:  Hey, if that's your metric, my friend, I will take it. URBAN:  No, listen, we're bringing -- so you're talking about bringing independents over, stock -- not trading, having insider trading on members of Congress, that's wildly popular amongst independents. And so if Democrats -- some Democrats can find things to clap about. FINNEY:  From a guy who has been convicted of fraud. Let's remember that. URBAN:  No, some of them have -- but insider trading. Some friends -- some members of Congress found things to stand up on the Democratic side. So I think show up, clap, have some decorum of both sides. BROWN:  OK, so on this note, right -- and I mean, this genuinely, and I could be wrong here, but I have never seen so many lawmakers take selfies with the president at the State of the Union. In fact, at one point, I believe the president signed the tie of a congresswoman right here, Troy Nehls of Texas. (CROSSTALK) BROWN:  What do you think about this... (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  I guarantee the president said, don't put that on eBay. (LAUGHTER) URBAN:  He signed it. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  Yes, don't sell it. FINNEY:  Or if you, I get half. If you put it on eBay, I get half. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  That's worth a lot of money now that I signed that, Troy. Listen, he's wildly popular amongst Republicans, 83, 84 percent, and the members of Congress in that chamber, Donald Trump is their hero. BROWN:  But what did you think about the lawmakers? (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  Listen, I think you have been to the White House, you see the president. I mean, I'm not sure -- it looks like they're at a rock concert, right? They're like with a K-pop group. FINNEY:  But we have seen this with other presidents where people literally will get their early to be on the route so that they can get a selfie. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  Oh, absolutely, yes, Democrats, Republicans, yes. (CROSSTALK) FINNEY:  We saw it with Obama. We saw it with President Biden or trying to grab your ear to kind of say, hey, here's an issue I want to talk to you about. URBAN:  So, they can go home and say, I talked to the president last night about XYZ. FINNEY:  Exactly. (CROSSTALK) FINNEY:  Right. We had a conversation. URBAN:  And their constituents see them. Listen, it's great that they're cheering for their home team. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  Listen, again, the best moments, celebrating these Medal of Honor recipients, the brave man from Task Force 160, helicopter pilot, fantastic individual, 100-year-old World War II veteran, the Korean War pilot. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  I mean, incredible moments, the U.S. hockey team, I mean, just spectacular, spectacular showmanship by the president. FINNEY:  Showmanship. I'm here for you, David. (CROSSTALK) URBAN:  I'm going to say one thing for Karen. (CROSSTALK) BROWN:  Yes, yes, yes. FINNEY:  Happy birthday, mom. You made it. URBAN:  Happy birthday, Ms. Betty (ph). BROWN:  What a blessing. Happy birthday. All right. FINNEY:  Thank you. WOLF BLITZER, CNN HOST:  We send our love on behalf of all of our viewers. (CROSSTALK) FINNEY:  Thank you so much. I appreciate it. BLITZER:  Thank you very much. Give her our love. FINNEY:  I will. BLITZER:  All right, there's more news coming up, fiery hearing right now. President Trump's pick for surgeon general of the United States is testifying on Capitol Hill. We're going to bring you the latest developments just ahead. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [11:39:00] BROWN:  Happening now, President Trump's top pick for the nation's top doctor is on Capitol Hill. Dr. Casey Means is appearing before senators for her highly anticipated confirmation hearing. Now, critics have questioned her credentials for the job. Means graduated from medical school at Stanford, but never completed her residency and her medical license is currently lapsed. CNN congressional correspondent Lauren Fox is on Capitol Hill. What has stood out to you from this hearing so far, particularly from Senator Cassidy, Lauren? LAUREN FOX, CNN CONGRESSIONAL CORRESPONDENT:  Yes, Pam,. I mean, I think Senator Cassidy is the one to watch here in part because of his trepidation in supporting RFK Jr. for HHS secretary just a few months ago. Obviously, he did eventually support RFK Jr., but he had deep reservations about some of the comments that RFK Jr. had made related to vaccine efficacy. And he had insisted as part of his vote that they would have regular conversations, that there would be no changes to the childhood vaccine schedule. Obviously, some of those promises never came to fruition. [11:40:09] And so I do think that this, in some ways, for Senator Cassidy is yet another opportunity to make his stand on vaccines. And you saw in his opening questions to the nominee that he repeatedly pushed her on whether or not she would recommend to parents across the United States that they should get their children vaccinated for the MMR vaccine. He also asked her whether he would -- she would recommend that people get the flu vaccine. And time and time again, she really argued that those are conversations that need to happen between a doctor and the patient. When I pushed Cassidy on whether or not he had any concerns following that questioning, here's what he told us. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) FOX:  Were you satisfied with her answers on vaccines? I mean... SEN. BILL CASSIDY (R-LA):  I'm running to an ENR committee. And I need to speak to my staff about what we're discussing. FOX:  So, can you just answer, were you satisfied with her answer on vaccines? CASSIDY:  The committee's not over, so let's -- but I would like to discuss with my staff these -- the hearing. FOX:  Do you have any concerns about the fact she's... (CROSSTALK) (END VIDEO CLIP) FOX:  And Senator Cassidy was trying to get to another hearing there, but you can tell. Time and time again, I pushed him on whether or not he was comfortable with her answers. He declined to answer, saying he needed to get briefed on another hearing he was headed to. He's now back in the committee room, but I would just point out, Pam, there are two other Republicans to watch very closely, Senator Susan Collins, as well as Senator Lisa Murkowski, who also serve on this committee. BROWN:  All right, Lauren Fox, thanks so much -- Wolf. BLITZER:  Also coming up: boycotting President Trump's speech. Dozens of Democrats chose to skip the State of the Union address. One of them, the House Democratic whip, Katherine Clark, standing by to join us live. That's next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [11:46:20] BLITZER:  Happening now:  Reaction keeps pouring in to President Trump's record-long State of the Union address last night, especially his message on the U.S. economy. Last night, he blasted Democrats for all the high prices, but more than a year into his second term, it's not clear if Americans are buying that argument. Listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES:  Affordability, a word they just use it. Somebody gave it to them, knowing full well that they caused and created the increased prices that all of our citizens had to endure. You caused that problem. (END VIDEO CLIP) BLITZER:  Joining us now, the House Democratic whip, Katherine Clark of Massachusetts. Whip Clark, thanks so much for coming in. I know you chose not to actually attend Trump's State of the Union address last night. I'm curious why and what's your takeaway from his speech. REP. KATHERINE CLARK (D-MA):  Yes, I decided not to go to this speech because I knew we weren't going to hear the real state of the union. So I spent the first hour of his speech with my constituents, hearing from small business owners, teachers, scientists who've had their research cut. And the picture they painted for me was pretty grim and filled with anxiety about the future. And the split screen of the president saying we're in a golden age, that really only applies to Donald Trump. He is the only one who is truly benefiting economically from his presidency. BLITZER:  We saw several interruptions from some of your Democratic colleagues who chose to attend the speech, including Congressman Al Green of Texas and Congresswoman Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, who was a guest here in THE SITUATION ROOM this hour. Was that a productive way to speak out against Trump and his agenda by shouting and screaming during the course of his remarks? CLARK:  Listen, we have a president who continuously goes before the American people and spews lies and misinformation. And I think, for some of my colleagues, that was their way of pushing back. But this State of the Union is not about Democrats or Republicans or members of Congress and their decorum. It's about the American people. And I can tell you that Donald Trump in this speech showed the disconnect that he has from the very real issues facing my people in my district and people that I talk to across the country, who are so worried they're never going to be able to make the rent, find health care, find childcare. They are increasingly worried about finding a good job with the job losses that we are seeing. These are the very real concerns that people have that he just brushed right on by and focused on what he sees as winning, because he continues to rig the system for the very wealthy and the already very powerful. BLITZER:  I want to play one Republican congressman, Don Bacon of Nebraska -- I assume you know him -- said about President Trump's speech last night. Listen to this. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) REP. DON BACON (R-NE):  Much more good than bad. I will just -- I mean, there's a few things I would nitpick him on, but he spent a great amount of effort and time on the economy, how the wages are climbing faster inflation and energy prices, gasoline. There was a lot of good stuff there. And I think he should do that more often, a lot more emphasis on how the economic indicators are going the right way. (END VIDEO CLIP) [11:50:00] BLITZER:  As you know, he's not necessarily afraid to criticize President Trump. He's been a guest here in THE SITUATION ROOM several times. Do you give the president any credit, though, for his messaging on the economy last night? CLARK:  No. (LAUGHTER) CLARK:  No. What I heard was a huge disconnect. He didn't talk about prices. He didn't talk about his tariff policy, which has been found to be illegal. He should be talking about how he is going to refund the American people from the money he has stolen from them with those tariffs. Look, he loves to give checks. Let's give some checks, and he could put an apology note in the envelope to the American people. The small business owners that I have talked to are just feeling like it is a matter of time before their doors close. They cannot hire the people they need, and they can't afford the increase in their costs. And it really hit hard for small businesses and retail around the holiday season when they had to order back in the height last spring of tariff policy and uncertainty. And so many of them have said to me, my doors are going to close. It's just whether it's March or April or May. So there is a huge disconnect in this administration and the GOP in the House on what is going on in their own districts. And it is unfathomable to me that they are not hearing the exact same things I'm hearing and responding. And we're seeing it in the numbers. Donald Trump always had wide approval in his handling of the economy. And he is so underwater with the American people. And nothing about the vision he put out last night addresses that anxiety. BLITZER:  The Democratic congressional whip, Democratic Congresswoman Katherine Clark of Massachusetts, thanks so much for joining us. CLARK:  Thank you. BLITZER:  And coming up, Pamela. BROWN:  Heroes are being honored. We're going to bring you the stories of the incredible people that President Trump brought to his State of the Union speech. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [11:56:54] BROWN:  A quick programming note for you. My documentary focused on the rise of Christian nationalism and its growing political influence has a new premiere date. Don't miss it. "THE WHOLE STORY WITH ANDERSON COOPER: The Rise of Christian Nationalism" now airs Sunday, March 8, at 8:00 p.m. Eastern time right here on CNN and the next day on the CNN app. It was supposed to be this last Sunday, but, of course, there was a big blizzard in the Northeast. And, before we go, we want to take a moment to shine a light on some of the heroes and the guests who were honored at last night's State of the Union address. This right here is Chief Warrant Officer 5 Eric Slover. He piloted a Chinook helicopter as part of the U.S. mission to capture Nicolas Maduro in Venezuela. Slover was shot four times and is still recovering from his extensive injuries. Trump presented him with the Medal of Honor and said 10 of his fellow warriors will also receive medals. BLITZER:  Navy fighter pilot Royce Williams has served in World War II. Korea and Vietnam. He was seriously injured in a dogfight with Soviet fighter planes. The 100-year-old veteran received the Medal of Honor from the first lady, Melania Trump. BROWN:  Coast Guard rescue swimmer Scott Ruskan responded to the devastating floods in Texas last year. He and his team saved 165 people, one of whom was 11-year-old little girl Milly Cate McClymond, who was there with him, reunited there for the first time. You see her waving. And President Trump also awarded Ruskan with the Legion of Merit. BLITZER:  Trump awarded two Purple Hearts. One was to the family of Army Specialist Sarah Beckstrom, who was killed during a shooting attack on the National Guard in D.C. The other was to Air Force Staff Sergeant Andrew Wolfe, who was shot in the head in the same ambush and survived. BROWN:  President Trump highlighted the story of Dalilah Coleman. According to the Department of Homeland Security, Coleman was 5 years old when an 18-wheel tractor trailer plowed in the car she was in. DHS says the driver was an undocumented immigrant. And despite being told she might never walk or talk again, Dalilah was there with her dad, Marcus. BLITZER:  Also in the audience, Jacqueline Medina. She found her 16- year-old daughter Lizbeth, dead in a bathtub stabbed to death, killed by an undocumented immigrant. BROWN:  The mother of Iryna Zarutska was also one of President Trump's guests; 23-year-old Zarutska was killed while riding public transit in Charlotte last August. She was a Ukrainian refugee escaping Russia's war there to come to America. BLITZER:  Another very powerful moment, President Trump called the Venezuelan opposition leader Enrique Marquez to come into the chamber for a surprise reunion with his niece. He had been held in a notorious prison since January of last year. BROWN:  And, finally, a golden moment for the Olympic champions. The U.S. women's hockey team got a standing ovation and the president awarded the Medal of Freedom to the goalie Connor Hellebuyck. He added that the U.S. women's hockey team, who also won gold, will soon be coming to the White House. [12:00:05] BLITZER:  Actually, the women's hockey team was not there last night, but the men's hockey team received standing ovations, as they should have. All of their stories are so compelling. They are certainly deserving of the national attention that they received. BROWN:  Yes, absolutely. BLITZER:  And, to our viewers here in the United States and around the world, thanks very much for joining us this morning. BROWN: "INSIDE POLITICS" with our friend and our colleague Dana Bash starts right now.