article_id: cnn_170
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/17/us/5-things-pm-february-17-trnd
title: Measuring El Niño, a dangerous route, training Dr. AI: Catch up on the day’s stories
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
👋 Welcome to 5 Things PM! A Netflix docuseries has reopened the wounds of “America’s Next Top Model.” Tyra Banks, former contestants and other judges look back at the show’s legacy — one messier than we ever knew.
Here’s what else you might have missed during your busy day.
Scientists are rethinking how they track Pacific Ocean temperatures as global warming reshapes climate patterns. A simple yet effective math trick is helping them spot El Niño and La Niña more clearly.
Dr. Alice Chiao used to teach emergency medicine to students at Stanford University’s medical school. Now, she’s teaching artificial intelligence-powered chatbots to think, diagnose and prescribe like her.
A day after his murder conviction was overturned, Subramanyam “Subu” Vedam was detained by ICE on a decades-old deportation order. Vedam prepared to be a free man after spending over four decades in prison, but an immigration judge just denied his request for bond.
US federal health officials recently reduced the number of vaccines recommended for children — pointing to Denmark, where newborn babies leave the hospital without a single shot. Is that a model worth copying? Dr. Sanjay Gupta goes to Copenhagen to find out.
At the age of 31, Bruna Moura’s 74th and 99th place results at the Olympics tell a remarkable story. See how the Brazilian athlete represents the heart of the Games .
An Amazon truck drove onto "extremely dangerous" mudflats and had to be recovered by a farmer. The path dates back 600 years and is not intended for vehicles.
🛑 Wrong way: An Amazon truck driver followed GPS instructions into dangerous mudflats. The path dates back 600 years and is often called the “ deadliest footpath in Britain .”
🏯 Built for eternity: After centuries of collapse and restoration, this bubble-shaped dome in Sri Lanka is still standing and remains the largest brick structure by volume ever constructed. Take a closer look .
EDITOR’S NOTE: Interested in exclusive stories like these? Choose a plan
🎉 According to the Chinese zodiac, what animal represents the current Lunar New Year? ﻿A. Dragon B. Snake C. Horse D. Goat ⬇️ Scroll down for the answer.
✅ Most popular in yesterday’s newsletter : Italy’s famous ‘Lovers’ Arch’ collapses on Valentine’s Day
🧠 Quiz answer: C. This year, the world rings in the Year of the Horse. See what’s in store for 2026 .
👋 We’ll see you tomorrow.
📧 Check out all of CNN’s newsletters .
Today’s edition of 5 Things PM was edited and produced by CNN’s Kimberly Richardson and Meghan Pryce.