article_id: cnn_189
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/04/europe/andrew-mountbatten-windsor-moves-royals-epstein-intl-hnk
title: Former Prince Andrew moves out of Windsor’s Royal Lodge, CNN understands
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Andrew Mountbatten-Windsor, formerly known as Britain’s Prince Andrew , has moved out of his longtime Windsor home and is now a resident of Norfolk, England, CNN understands.
In October, Mountbatten-Windsor was ordered to leave the sprawling 30-room Royal Lodge in the heart of the Crown’s Windsor Estate, just outside of London, after his brother King Charles III cast him out of the monarchy over the swirling Jeffrey Epstein scandal.
The move was expected to occur after the holiday season, but it comes amid renewed pressure on Mountbatten-Windsor after he appeared again in a newly released trove of US Justice Department documents related to the investigation into the deceased convicted sex offender.
Royal sources told CNN last year that Mountbatten-Windsor will be given a house on the King’s private estate in Sandringham and will also receive an income from Charles. Britain’s public broadcaster, the BBC, reported that he now is staying in a temporary property at Sandringham, while his permanent residence undergoes renovations.
Mountbatten-Windsor is expected to make occasional visits back to Windsor in the coming weeks while a transitionary phase is completed, CNN understands. The former prince was seen riding a horse in Windsor Great Park, near Royal Lodge, on Monday.
The former prince left Royal Lodge on Monday and was driven to Sandringham estate in Norfolk under the cover of darkness to avoid being seen, Britain’s Sun newspaper reported Tuesday.
Mountbatten-Windsor’s occupation of the Royal Lodge – for which he paid just $1 million for a 75-year lease with peppercorn, meaning nominal, annual rent “if required” – became a source of public outrage in Britain last October after the release of a posthumous memoir by Virginia Giuffre, who alleged that the royal had sexually assaulted her as a teenager.
She wrote that Mountbatten-Windsor “believed that having sex with me was his birthright.”
Giuffre – who Mountbatten-Windsor claims never to have met – died by suicide in April at the age of 41. He has repeatedly denied all allegations.
The former prince sought to end the renewed scrutiny of his conduct by relinquishing use of his titles . But his moves did little to stem the flow of negative headlines.
That led to Charles’ extraordinary decision to strip his brother of his royal titles and evict him from the royal estate in Windsor – the British monarch’s most dramatic attempt to quell the scandal over the disgraced former prince’s links to Epstein.
The late Queen Elizabeth II had granted Mountbatten-Windsor, the third of her four children, the right to live in the lodge, which is officially owned by the Crown Estate.
The news of the former prince’s move comes as the latest trove of Epstein files adds further pressure on the disgraced royal.
In the latest files, three undated photos appear to show the former prince kneeling over what appears to be a female who is lying fully clothed and supine on the floor. Her face has been redacted.
In two photos, Mountbatten-Windsor touches her stomach and waist; in a third, he looks at the camera while on all fours, leaning over her body.
It is unclear when or where the images were taken; no captions or context for the photographs were provided with the document release.
Also in the documents is an email exchange between Epstein and Mountbatten-Windsor in August 2010, in which the financier invites the royal to meet a “friend” — whose name was redacted — for dinner in London.
Mountbatten-Windsor replied that he would be “delighted to see her” and told Epstein to pass on his contact details. Epstein then describes the woman as a 26-year-old Russian who is “clevere (sic) beautiful, trustworthy,” and confirms that she has Mountbatten-Windsor’s email.
The royal family has not issued a statement on the latest revelations. Neither the photographs nor the email messages suggest any wrongdoing.
Meanwhile, Thames Valley Police said Tuesday that it was assessing allegations, first reported by the BBC, that a second woman has claimed that she was trafficked by Epstein to the UK for a sexual encounter with Mountbatten-Windsor in 2010.
The police said in a statement sent to CNN: “We are aware of reports about a woman said to have been taken to an address in Windsor in 2010 for sexual purposes.
“We are assessing the information in line with our established procedures.
It continued, “We take any reports of sexual crimes extremely seriously and encourage anyone with information to come forward. At this time, these allegations have not been reported to Thames Valley Police by either the lawyer or their client.”
The police statement came after the BBC reported Saturday that an encounter allegedly occurred at Mountbatten-Windsor’s former residence on the Windsor estate when the woman was in her 20s.
The woman’s lawyer, Brad Edwards, told the BBC that after spending the night with him, the woman – who was not British – said she was then given a tour of Buckingham Palace. CNN has contacted Edwards for comment.
CNN has also attempted to contact Mountbatten-Windsor. He has not commented on these latest accusations but has previously denied any wrongdoing.
Melinda French Gates says ex-husband Bill Gates has questions to answer over Epstein ties
In November, Democrats on the House Oversight Committee requested that Mountbatten-Windsor come to Washington to give evidence as part of the panel’s investigation into Epstein. Although Mountbatten-Windsor did not respond to the request at the time, UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer on Saturday urged the former prince to submit himself to questioning.
US Vice President JD Vance told London’s Daily Mail newspaper on Tuesday that he is “certainly open to” Mountbatten-Windsor testifying before US lawmakers over his friendship with Epstein.
At a summit in Dubai on Tuesday, Prince Edward, a brother of King Charles and Mountbatten-Windsor, told CNN, “It’s all really important always to remember the victims.” He did not comment further.
CNN’s Lauren Said-Moorhouse, Billy Stockwell, Lauren Kent, Sharon Braithwaite and Lianne Kolirin contributed reporting.