article_id: cnn_27
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/24/us/5-things-pm-february-24-trnd
title: State of the Union preview, pollution fight, moon mission: Catch up on the day’s stories
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
👋 Welcome to 5 Things PM! President Donald Trump will deliver his State of the Union address to a joint session of Congress tonight — and he warned that “it’s going to be a long speech.” Special coverage starts at 8 p.m. ET on CNN. These are four things to watch .
Here’s what else you might have missed during your busy day.
The Trump administration delivered a serious blow to US climate policy by repealing the longstanding scientific finding that greenhouse gas pollution poses a danger to humans. Now come the court battles — and there are plenty of opponents.
Efforts to get NASA’s historic moon journey off the ground have stalled once again as engineers navigate a new problem with the rocket. The space agency is now targeting no earlier than April to launch Artemis II.
Rottnest Island, a tourist hot spot off the coast of Perth in southwestern Australia, is famous for its beautiful beaches and cuddly quokkas. But there’s a dark history behind this island paradise .
You’ve probably seen a kid glued to their tablet at a restaurant while their parents enjoyed dinner. Some moms and dads want more real-world adventure and hands-on activities for their children .
The beloved hospital comedy returns with a new heartbeat — and the same old heart. You’ll recognize several familiar faces .
Thousands of visitors gather each February at Yosemite National Park to witness the rare “Firefall” phenomenon. This occurs when sunlight hits Horsetail Fall at just the right angle, creating a visual effect that turns the waterfall a molten orange.
🌋 ‘Lava waterfall’: People flock to Yosemite National Park every February to see the “Firefall” phenomenon. When sunlight hits at just the right angle, the visual effect turns the waterfall a molten orange .
📸 A whale of a photo: This image of a rare white humpback whale calf and its mother took top honors at the 2026 World Nature Photography Awards.
EDITOR’S NOTE: Interested in exclusive stories like these? Choose a plan
🤖 Which tech company just pledged $50 billion to tackle AI inequality? ﻿A. Microsoft B. Google C. Apple D. Meta ⬇️ Scroll down for the answer.
✅ Most popular in yesterday’s newsletter : US tourists stranded in Mexico amid ‘really scary’ cartel violence following drug lord’s killing
🧠 Quiz answer: A. Microsoft said it will invest the money to help bring artificial intelligence to lower-income countries.
👋 We’ll see you tomorrow.
📧 Check out all of CNN’s newsletters .
Today’s edition of 5 Things PM was edited and produced by CNN’s Kimberly Richardson and Jordan D. Brown.