article_id: cnn_43
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/12/world/video/lunar-new-year-taipo-hong-kong-fire-kristie-lu-stout-hnk-vrtc-digvid
title: Lunar New Year grief for Hong Kong fire survivor
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
As Hong Kong prepares to mark the Lunar New Year - a time when families traditionally come together - 68 year-old Yip Ka Kui mourns his wife, killed in a deadly high-rise fire three months ago. Each day he sends her messages and voice notes as he processes the grief and trauma of his loss.
As Hong Kong prepares to mark the Lunar New Year - a time when families traditionally come together - 68 year-old Yip Ka Kui mourns his wife, killed in a deadly high-rise fire three months ago. Each day he sends her messages and voice notes as he processes the grief and trauma of his loss.
President Donald Trump on Thursday claimed that Iran has reached out in hopes of working out a deal to end the war. CNN reported Wednesday that Iranian intelligence has sent word to the United States it could be prepared to open talks on how to end the war, according to people familiar with the indirect messages, but US officials say there are no negotiations underway and that potential “off-ramps” are unlikely to materialize in the near term.
CNN's Christiane Amanpour speaks to former chairman of the joint chief of staff Admiral Mike Mullen (Ret.) about the inventory of US missiles while it continues to be at war with Iran.
CNN's Matthew Chance was forced to escape a southern Beirut neighborhood as the Israeli military warned of an airstrike while he was reporting from the area. The warning came just minutes after he joined Hezbollah for a tour of the pro-Iranian militia's stronghold.
Iran may not possess the same military arsenal as the United States and Israel, but it is employing asymmetric warfare strategies to counter their superior military power. CNN military analyst Cedric Leighton explains.
Everyone is watching to see whether Kurdish fighters will launch a ground offensive into western Iran. So, who are the Kurds?
CNN’s Erin Burnett reports on one woman’s emotional decision to leave Dubai as the Iran conflict continues to unfold.
The White House is facing criticism for a video posted to X on Wednesday that mixed “Call of Duty” game footage with clips of American missile strikes inside Iran.  CNN's Brian Stelter reports.
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un watched cruise missiles launch from the country’s newest destroyer, the Choe Hyon. The destroyer is believed to carry dozens of missiles, including weapons North Korea claims could be nuclear-capable. CNN's Will Ripley reports.
In a CNN exclusive, two sources briefed on the operation say Iranian bombers came within minutes of striking the largest US military base in the Middle East before Qatari fighter jets intercepted them. CNN’s Mostafa Salem reports.
CNN's Frederik Pleitgen is on his way to Iran’s capital, Tehran, as Israel and the US continue their aerial campaign against the country. CNN is operating in Iran only with government permission.
Qatar has been subject to another barrage of missiles from Iran, the Ministry of Defense confirmed. CNN's Bijan Hosseini reports from the ground in Doha.
According to Azerbaijan’s foreign ministry, drone attacks injured two people and damaged the terminal building of an airport near the Iran-Azerbaijan border. Iran’s armed forces denied launching drones at Azerbaijan.
The Pentagon released footage of an Iranian warship being sunk by a US submarine in the Indian Ocean, shortly after the vessel participated in an international naval conference in India. CNN's Ivan Watson reports.