article_id: cnn_48
url: https://www.cnn.com/sponsor/edition/cmg/chinese-new-year-markets
title: Spring Festival traditions are finding new life in contemporary markets
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Chinese New Year, or Spring Festival, has long been a time when family rituals, seasonal foods, and community gatherings come together to form a shared cultural experience that extends far beyond the holiday itself. Across China, neighborhoods are finding new ways to combine cultural value with commercial vitality. Weipo Village in Luoyang, Henan Province, offers a notable example of this shift, with Spring Festival celebrations transforming its Qing Dynasty–era streets and courtyards into an immersive festive landscape.
Culinary traditions sit at the heart of Chinese New Year celebrations, with dishes such as dumplings, fish, and noodles carrying symbolic meanings of prosperity, abundance, and longevity respectively. Beyond food, Spring Festival practices—inscribed on the UNESCO Intangible Cultural Heritage list —also include social customs such as wearing new clothes, decorative arts, folk performances, and communal gatherings that reinforce social bonds.
Markets have historically played a central role within communities, particularly during the holiday season, serving as places to purchase festive goods, exchange greetings, and encounter local craftsmanship. In modern cities, market areas such as Panlong Tiandi in Shanghai and Qianmen Street in Beijing continue to preserve this communal spirit, while adapting to changing lifestyles and the ways people experience and enjoy cultural traditions today.
At the ancient village of Weipo, now revitalized as a living cultural village, the Spring Festival takes center stage at Luoyang Grand Market. The celebration unfolds through a sequence of large-scale public programs that reinterpret the traditional market within a contemporary festive setting. In the weeks leading up to Chinese New Year, decorative installations appear throughout the historic lanes, while market stalls offer red paper ornaments, including calligraphy couplets bearing auspicious meanings and paper-cut designs featuring festive motifs. Visitors can also find celebratory foods and familiar snacks such as candied hawthorn, handmade glutinous rice balls, and sugar paintings.
The seasonal celebrations reach their peak with the Spring Festival Market, running from Chinese New Year’s Eve on February 16 through February 22, 2026. This open-air program emphasizes tradition, family, and togetherness, with parades featuring drummers, large paper lanterns, and dragon dances animating the streets. A fun fair introduces ring toss, balloon darts, and other carnival games for visitors of all ages. Visitors are also invited to write wishes and blessings on communal walls, turning individual hopes into a collective expression of the season.
At Luoyang Grand Market, the festive atmosphere unfolds across the season, beginning in late December with Winter Solstice, an important date on the Chinese lunar calendar. The occasion—historically important in China as a turning point in the agricultural calendar, signaling the gradual return of longer days—has traditionally been marked by family gatherings and the preparation of seasonal foods such as dumplings and glutinous rice ball soup.
Related article Getting to know the horse as a symbol of progress and renewal in China
The Winter Solstice program serves as a cultural prelude, positioning Luoyang Grand Market as a space where heritage provides a foundation for contemporary expression. Exhibitions of paper-cutting art and palace lantern craftsmanship are integrated into the courtyards and corridors of Weipo Village’s 16 stately residences and over 300 historic residences. An intangible cultural heritage innovation market displays ceramics, textiles, and other products that incorporate folk techniques into modern life, while hands-on master classes in folk arts offer visitors opportunities to engage directly with living traditions.
By combining heritage, design, and participation, projects like Luoyang Grand Market provide contemporary platforms for the continuation of intangible cultural heritage, craftsmanship, and folk practices, allowing long-standing Spring Festival traditions to live actively in the present.
As urban celebrations continue to evolve, models such as Weipo Village suggest a future in which honoring the past comes from creating space for traditions to grow alongside modern life.
To experience this shared cultural moment that marks the transition into The Year of the Horse, visit here .