article_id: cnn_50
url: https://www.cnn.com/interactive/2026/02/us/cnn-5-things-news-quiz-feb-20-sec/
title: Weekly News Quiz: February 20, 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Peter Kramer/Getty Images
Felipe Trueba/Imagen Chile/AP
Sean Gardner/Getty Images North America/Getty Images
By Alexandra Banner and James Grant
A global celebration. A massive avalanche. A royal scandal. What do you remember from the week that was?
Keep up with the news you need. Sign up for the 5 Things newsletter.
The world rang in the Year of the Horse on February 17 — the first day of the Lunar New Year festivities.
At least eight skiers were killed in what is now the deadliest avalanche in California’s recorded history , authorities said.
Britain’s former Prince Andrew, younger brother of King Charles III, was arrested on suspicion of misconduct in public office . Police previously said they were reviewing claims that Andrew shared sensitive information with convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein while serving as UK trade envoy.
Smoke in a JetBlue aircraft cabin forced passengers to evacuate on the taxiway, temporarily shutting down Newark airport on Wednesday.
New Mexico’s House of Representatives passed a measure aimed at investigating a ranch that the late sex offender owned in the state.
Rev. Jesse Jackson ran two electrifying presidential campaigns in the 1980s, but never held elected office.
President Trump convened the inaugural meeting of his Board of Peace in Washington, DC, on Thursday. Initially created to oversee the reconstruction of the Gaza Strip, the controversial board has since expanded to address conflicts worldwide.
Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday testified before a jury for the first time about accusations that social media platforms, including Instagram, harm children’s mental health.
A “ring of fire” solar eclipse was visible over parts of the world this week, marking the first eclipse of 2026 .
Reddick won the Daytona 500, held every February in Daytona Beach, Florida. The driver notched a victory for the racing team owned by basketball legend Michael Jordan.
Test your knowledge with our free collection of games and puzzles—right here on CNN.