article_id: cnn_75
url: https://www.cnn.com/2026/02/17/world/video/rules-to-follow-for-a-prosperous-lunar-new-year-digvid-vrtc
title: Rules to follow for a prosperous Lunar New Year
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
As millions celebrate the start of the Lunar New Year, it's not just about the festivities but also about honoring key traditions that are believed to bring good fortune. From giving red packets to ensuring your home is properly prepared, CNN's Mike Valerio outlines the essential do's and don’ts that can help set the tone for a successful year ahead.
As millions celebrate the start of the Lunar New Year, it's not just about the festivities but also about honoring key traditions that are believed to bring good fortune. From giving red packets to ensuring your home is properly prepared, CNN's Mike Valerio outlines the essential do's and don’ts that can help set the tone for a successful year ahead.
Britney Spears was arrested Wednesday night, according to information from Ventura County, California authorities. Booking information obtained by CNN shows that the pop superstar was stopped by the California Highway Patrol around 9:30 p.m. Thursday and later released.
The “Brady Bunch” house used in exterior shots of the iconic family sitcom gained historic landmark status in Los Angeles.
Lou Holtz, the College Football Hall of Fame coach who led Notre Dame to the 1988 national championship and won 249 games over 33 seasons at six schools, has died. He was 89.
Taiwan hosts the Yanshui Beehive Fireworks Festival annually. Thousands of fireworks fly into crowds of attendees, who hope the sparks will cast off bad luck at the start of the new lunar year.
CNN's Dana Bash sits down with Jack Schlossberg, grandson of former President John F. Kennedy and candidate in New York’s 12th Congressional district, to discuss the recent death of his sister Tatiana Schlossberg. "She’s still with me, she’s out there campaigning with me,” Schlossberg told CNN. Watch the full story on CNN.com/allaccess .