article_id: cnn_83
url: https://edition.cnn.com/2026/02/08/world/video/kite-festival-lahore-returns-vrtc
title: Deadly kite festival back after nearly 25 years
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Basant, a historic kite flying festival that had been banned for 25 years for safety reasons has finally returned to the Pakistani city of Lahore this weekend amidst much joy and excitement. Activities around the long awaited spring festival have been toned down after a deadly suicide attack killed dozens in the capital on Friday.
Basant, a historic kite flying festival that had been banned for 25 years for safety reasons has finally returned to the Pakistani city of Lahore this weekend amidst much joy and excitement. Activities around the long awaited spring festival have been toned down after a deadly suicide attack killed dozens in the capital on Friday.
CNN’s Dana Bash offers a deeper look into Sen. Markwayne Mullin (R‑OK) after President Donald Trump said Thursday on social media he was firing Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem and would name the senator to replace her.
CNN's Christiane Amanpour speaks to former chairman of the joint chief of staff Admiral Mike Mullen (Ret.) about the inventory of US missiles while it continues to be at war with Iran.
Approval for President Donald Trump’s massive East Wing ballroom project from the NCPC has been delayed after it received over 32,000 comments from the public overwhelmingly opposing the construction.
Iran may not possess the same military arsenal as the United States and Israel, but it is employing asymmetric warfare strategies to counter their superior military power. CNN military analyst Cedric Leighton explains.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth emphasized on Thursday that there is “no shortage of American will” in the fight against Iran, and that the US would remember the six fallen US service members by “rededicating ourselves” to the fight, while adding that the US has "no shortage of munitions."
Police in Austin, Texas released surveillance video and body camera footage from the March 1 mass shooting that killed three people and injured more than a dozen others. CNN’s Ed Lavandera reports.
President Donald Trump on Thursday claimed that Iran has reached out in hopes of working out a deal to end the war. CNN reported Wednesday that Iranian intelligence has sent word to the United States it could be prepared to open talks on how to end the war, according to people familiar with the indirect messages, but US officials say there are no negotiations underway and that potential “off-ramps” are unlikely to materialize in the near term.
Sen. Mullin told reporters Thursday afternoon that he’s spoken with President Trump but said they “still have to communicate” and “get on the same page.” The president had not indicated publicly if he intended to nominate Mullin to serve as a permanent replacement.
CNN's Matthew Chance was forced to escape a southern Beirut neighborhood as the Israeli military warned of an airstrike while he was reporting from the area. The warning came just minutes after he joined Hezbollah for a tour of the pro-Iranian militia's stronghold.
Everyone is watching to see whether Kurdish fighters will launch a ground offensive into western Iran. So, who are the Kurds?