article_id: cnn_84
url: https://www.cnn.com/sponsor/edition/cmg/spring-gala-2026
title: Getting to know the horse as a symbol of progress and renewal in China
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
From the earliest use of horse-drawn chariots in the Bronze Age to the rise of Han-dynasty cavalry and the extensive networks of Silk Road trade, horses played a central role in territorial expansion, facilitating exchange, and shaping cultural values.
As the world prepares to welcome the Year of the Horse, this long-standing symbol of movement and momentum is reflected in the China Media Group (CMG) Spring Festival Gala, the annual variety program broadcast live worldwide on Chinese New Year’s Eve—February 16, 2026—when families traditionally gather for reunion dinners and stay up late to usher in the year ahead.
At the heart of the 2026 Spring Festival Gala is a theme expressed in English as ‘Galloping Steed, Onward Unstoppable.’ The concept draws inspiration from Li Sao (Encountering Sorrow), a poem by the Warring States–era poet Qu Yuan, from the classical anthology ‘Songs of Chu’. In the poem, the image of mounting a fine steed and galloping ahead serves as a metaphor for courage and the determination to move forward despite adversity.
The official logo for the 2026 Spring Festival Gala translates this idea into an abstract visual composition. Four galloping horses are outlined using traditional Chinese decorative motifs, including cloud patterns, thunder patterns, and meander designs. Rendered in a contemporary style, the motif is designed to be geometrically transformable, allowing the image to expand into an ever-evolving formation of galloping steeds.
Drawing from the poetic foundation of the theme, four horse mascots—Qiqi, Jiji, Chichi, and Chengcheng—were created, each influenced by Chinese history, cultural artifacts, and the equine world.
Related article A horse's 150KM journey home
Three of the mascots take inspiration from notable horse representations in Chinese art, including a horse-shaped bronze ‘zun’ from the Western Zhou Dynasty (1046 BC–771 BC), a ritual wine vessel that exemplifies a balance between artistic expression and practical function. Other inspirations include a renowned bronze horse sculpture from the Han Dynasty (206 BC–AD 220)—believed to represent the legendary ‘heavenly steed,’ prized for speed and endurance—as well as the tri-colored glazed pottery horses of the Tang Dynasty (AD 618–907), a period known for its lead-glazed burial wares rendered in cream, green, and amber tones.
The final mascot departs from historical artifacts and instead takes inspiration from Przewalski’s horse, the world’s last remaining wild horse species, which was reintroduced into the wild in recent decades through sustained conservation efforts. Together, the four mascots embody cultural heritage and the spirit of renewal expressed through the Spring Festival Gala’s theme.
Now in its 44th annual edition, the Spring Festival Gala has grown into one of China’s most significant cultural events, broadcast every Chinese New Year’s Eve. The four-hour live program features a wide range of performances, including music, dance, comedy sketches, opera, and large-scale visual spectacles.
The Gala is known for blending traditional culture with contemporary creativity, and the 2026 edition continues this approach through the use of advanced production technologies such as extended reality and augmented reality to create an immersive stage design. Last year’s dancing robots are also making a return, offering a modern interpretation of festive New Year celebrations while highlighting the Year of the Horse themes of progress and cultural continuity.
Since its first broadcast more than four decades ago, the Spring Festival Gala has become one of the most-watched national television programs in the world. Its reach has continued to expand across platforms, and in 2025, the program recorded more than 16.8 billion global views worldwide.
To experience this shared cultural moment that marks the transition into The Year of the Horse, visit here .