article_id: cnn_90
url: https://transcripts.cnn.com/show/ist/date/2026-02-17/segment/01
title: CNN.com - Transcripts
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Return to Transcripts main page
U.S. Holds Critical Talks On Iran And Ukraine In Geneva; Civil Rights Icon Jesse Jackson Dies At Age 84; DNA On Glove Found Near Nancy Guthrie's Home Matches No One In FBI Database; Online Influencers Descend On Arizona To Cover Guthrie Case; Hillary Clinton Accuses Trump Admin. Of Epstein Cover-Up; Remembering Civil Rights Leader Jesse Jackson; Trump: "Cuba is Right Now A Failed Nation"; CBS Scraps Talarico Interview After FCC Threats. Aired 2-3p ET
Aired February 17, 2026 - 14:00   ET
THIS IS A RUSH TRANSCRIPT. THIS COPY MAY NOT BE IN ITS FINAL FORM AND MAY BE UPDATED.
[14:00:00] ISA SOARES, HOST, ISA SOARES TONIGHT: A very warm welcome to the show, everyone, I'm Isa Soares. Tonight, a whirlwind day of diplomacy as the U.S. holds critical talks on Iran and Ukraine in Geneva. But has the needle really moved on either crisis? We'll have the very latest. Then tributes are flooding in after civil rights icon Jesse Jackson dies at the age of 84. I'll be joined by his lawyer of 38 years as she reflects on his life and legacy. Plus, still no leads on the Nancy Guthrie case, but officials are making one thing clear. The family are not considered suspects. We'll have that and much more ahead for you this hour. But we do begin with the critical day of diplomacy in Geneva, where negotiators are trying to prevent a new war in the Middle East and end the deadliest war in Europe since World War II. Two separate rounds of talks taking place today. Iran's Foreign Minister says a new window of opportunity has opened after indirect discussions with U.S. negotiators, Jared Kushner and Steve Witkoff. He says they reached a guiding set of principles on a deal over Iran's nuclear program, but there is much more work ahead. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) ABBAS ARAGHCHI, FOREIGN MINISTER, IRAN (through translator): We now have a clearer picture of what needs to be done and what needs to be done down the road. Of course, both sides still have positions that need to be brought closer together, but at least now, we have a set of guiding principles and a clear path to follow. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: After those talks, Kushner and Witkoff then crossed town to mediate between Ukraine and Russia. Ukraine is pushing for an end to the war, and western-backed security guarantees. Before the talks, U.S. President Donald Trump predicted it's going to be very easy, warning Ukraine, not Russia, by the way, to come to the table and fast. The Kremlin told reporters not to expect any news today. So, a lot to cover this hour. I do want to begin with Frederik Pleitgen, who is in Geneva, Natasha Bertrand is for us in Washington. Natasha, let me start with you on Iran. The Iranians, as we've said, have called this meeting constructive. What is -- what's your understanding of how the American side assessing this latest round of negotiations -- we heard the Iranians saying, guiding set of principles on the substance. What does that mean? NATASHA BERTRAND, CNN NATIONAL SECURITY CORRESPONDENT: Well, U.S. officials are coming out of these talks, striking a somewhat optimistic tone, actually, with one U.S. official telling CNN that, quote, "progress was made, but there is still a lot of details to discuss, and that U.S. officials said the Iranians have promised to come back to the Americans within the next two weeks to provide more details around these proposals to address open gaps, quote, unquote, "in our positions". So, that is a far cry from the more pessimistic tone that we have heard over the last several days, including from President Donald Trump, who has said that he believes that regime change in Iran is the only option and only way forward here. But still, you know, that optimistic tone is kind of belied by the fact that we see this massive U.S. military build-up in the region. One U.S. aircraft carrier already in the area, another on the way, dozens of aircraft and fighter jets headed to the region and have arrived there in recent days, just all signs that the U.S. is essentially forcing the Iranians to negotiate with a very loaded gun pointed at their head. And so, it remains unclear whether what the Iranians actually come back with is going to be sufficient to get the U.S. to kind of pull back some of those military threats. According to our sources, the Iranians have said that they're potentially willing to move some of their enriched uranium to Russia. And they're potentially also willing to pause their enrichment of uranium for a matter of years, but not do so permanently, which is something that the U.S. has said that they really need to see them do in order to make these negotiations successful. So, a lot could happen in the next two weeks, and the U.S. military is really ready for any option that President Trump decides to move forward with. Isa. SOARES: Yes, and meantime, we continue to see, you know, both sides posturing and grandstanding. And the risk, of course of miscalculation. You said there, is very real. Let me go to Fred. Fred, you have covered Tehran for us on numerous occasions. [14:05:00] We have spoken when you were on the ground in Tehran. So, give me your sense of what potential -- a potential agreement might look like, because the Iranians want missiles and proxies off the table. How realistic is this? FREDERIK PLEITGEN, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: Yes, Isa, first of all, I think that scene-setter that you had at the beginning was absolutely perfect and to the point. I mean, one of the things that we've seen here is that definitely Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner have shown a huge degree of stamina as these talks today have been going on, because not only did they do the Iran talks early this morning, then the trilateral talks with the Russians and the Ukrainians. They're also now in meetings with European officials as well. So, all of that diplomacy is still going on. It really has been a whirlwind day here in Geneva. Now, as far as Iran is concerned, some of the things that Natasha was saying about those talks, certainly also things that we're hearing from the Iranian side as well. They believe that progress was made, but that things are being mapped out to the way to possibly get some sort of agreement going. Apparently, what both sides want to do now is, they're going to go back to their capitals, they're going to talk to some of the other folks there, the decision makers there. And each come up with draft agreements that they're then going to try and work closer to one another. As far as the Iranians are concerned, what's important for them is, first of all, exactly what you said. The fact that they want this to only be what they call about the nuclear file, not about missiles, not about proxy forces, and that certainly seems to be the case. The big issue right now, it seems, between the U.S. and the Iranian side is the question of Iranian uranium enrichment. The Trump administration has, of course, in the past said they want zero enrichment. They don't want the Iranians to continue enriching uranium. They, of course, hit those Iranian nuclear sites in the past. The Iranians are saying they believe they have the right to do that under international law. Are the two sides going to be able to come to some sort of compromise, where both sides can say they believe that they are comfortable with that. The other big issue for the Iranians, and this is certainly a huge one, is sanctions relief. Obviously, if they sign an agreement that will put even more constrictions on their nuclear program, they want sanctions relief in return. When would that sanctions relief come? How would that sanctions relief come? Certainly, also part of these discussions. One thing that I thought was quite interesting today is the Iranian Foreign Minister, Abbas Araghchi. He went in front of  the press after the meeting took place or in front of the Iranian press, I should say, and he said that he believes they're on -- there could be on track for an agreement. But it's not going to be fast. It's not going to be easy to achieve, and he certainly also says it's going to become more complicated as they get more into the nuances of a possible agreement. And of course, just listening to what Natasha had to say, that coming in front of the backdrop of those massive military moves the United States is making in that region, certainly makes time of the essence, Isa. SOARES: Well, let's focus on the other meeting. A meeting, of course, that the Ukrainians had hoped would come to a conclusion much faster and hoping, of course, that this ends quickly. Of course, we're now entering its fifth war, and that  is this third round of talks, Fred, between Ukraine, Russia and the United States. We've just got some sort of readout from the Ukrainian side. I'm just going to get your perspective on what they said. So, the Russian state media agency "TASS" described the talks as very tense. The Ukrainians said the discussions focused on practical issues and the mechanisms of possible solutions. What does that mean? PLEITGEN: Well, we certainly on the ground, and we've actually been in the sort of inside the hotel where the talks have been taking place, obviously not inside the room itself, but I'm not sure whether or not or how tense they actually were. But it certainly seems as though the atmosphere was quite difficult when we were inside. And I think one thing that also shows that is that both sides have now apparently left for the night. At least, the political figures who were involved in that, Rustem Umerov, for instance, for the Ukrainians and Vladimir Medinsky, for the Russians, where both the leaders of their respective delegations. And so far, there were press conferences that were scheduled for today that have not happened. And they said that those are going to happen tomorrow. And so, it certainly seems as though there are a lot of things the two sides want to talk about, and a lot of areas where there are disagreements. And it's unclear how much progress they are going to be able to make in these talks. But it certainly seems as though right now, as they get down to really the details of a lot of these things, like, for instance, security guarantees, but especially territories, it certainly seems as though the going isn't very easy. We saw both delegations leave here, I would say about maybe a little less than an hour ago. They say the talks are going to continue tomorrow, but it certainly is unclear at this point how much progress is actually realistic to be made, as these talks here unfold in Geneva. Isa. SOARES: Well, both on the Iran and then the Russia-Ukraine front, it's a good sign, they're still talking, at least. Natasha and Fred, thank you very much to you both. [14:10:00] I want to stick on the latest, of course, of the Russia's war in Ukraine that Fred was just discussing there. We're joined by Oleksandr Merezhko; the chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the Ukrainian parliament. Oleksandr, great to have you back on the show. I'm sure you heard our Fred Pleitgen talking there. The negotiations, the meeting reconvenes tomorrow. It's not clear at this stage how much progress has been made, but as -- if we go from what the Russian state media agency "TASS" is saying, it seems to be very tense. And the -- and then Kyiv's lead negotiator, Rustem Umerov said the discussions focused on practical issues and the mechanisms of possible solutions. How do you interpret that, and how optimistic are you that these -- this third round of negotiations will yield results? OLEKSANDR MEREZHKO, MEMBER OF UKRAINIAN PARLIAMENT: Thank you for having me. Nothing has changed and unfortunately, nothing will change, because for a very simple reason, the situation remains the same. Overnight, Ukraine -- Ukrainian cities have -- cities have been bombarded by Russia. And Putin is using this negotiations to continue to kill civilian population in Ukraine and to continue to destroy our critical civilian infrastructure. He needs this negotiations only to continue the war, and also to avoid sanctions. That's it. That's why they will be absolutely no result until President Trump will become a realistic, until he understands that it's impossible to make a deal with Putin. It's naive to believe. It's like during the second World War, to believe that you can make a deal with Hitler. It's absolutely futile. The only realistic scenario, the only realistic approach under the circumstances, is to put maximum pressure on Putin, and to make him to negotiate in earnest, otherwise it doesn't work. SOARES: Yes, and look, you're right. Russia launched yet another -- it feels like every time, Oleksandr, you and I speak, it's on the heels of another attack, right? We saw a series of attacks overnight. We were just showing viewers some footage there. We've seen Odesa, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, many areas, many regions of Ukraine impacted. Yet, I know that President Zelenskyy was going to push on this ahead of the meeting. I'm just going to read part of what he said. He said, these guard -- "the guys definitely need" -- that is delegation, "definitely need to ask questions about these strikes, the Russian strikes overnight, primarily to the American side. Which suggested that both we and Russia refrain from strikes." Having said that, we've heard this in the last kind of 24 hours from the U.S. President. Have a listen Oleksandr. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES: We have big talks, it's going to be very easy. I mean, it's -- look, so far, Ukraine better come to the table fast. That's all I'm telling you. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: So, you heard him there, I'm not sure you heard Ukraine better come to the table fast. Just reading between the lines, that seems pressure, perhaps, on Ukraine to force Ukraine to make concessions on territory which, as we heard is the major sticking point. But going again, to your point, not that pressure is not being applied or is it being applied or we don't know, too, Russia. MEREZHKO: That's a great question and it's very difficult to give a diplomatic and political answer to this question. My guess is that unfortunately, so far at least, President Trump has used, so to speak, carrots for the aggressor and sticks for the victim of the aggression. And I'm afraid that if there is such a pressure, it's very dangerous precedent because the pressure should be put on the criminal, on the aggressor, not on the victim of the aggression. SOARES: So, and you and I have spoken about this. I've heard, you know, repeatedly from many guests on my show including yourself, that Putin -- this signals that Putin isn't interested in peace or indeed in a ceasefire, we didn't have to go to this third round of talks. That has been clear. So, what stage then, Oleksandr, do you think that the Americans potentially call this a sham? Add more pressure and real pressure. How long do they need to give diplomacy a chance? MEREZHKO: Well, diplomacy unfortunately doesn't work with Putin. He is weaponizing everything, and the only language he understands is a position of strength. I believe that American President should be realistic, should be decisive, resolute, and he should deliver on his previous promise. The only realistic scenario and option is to revert to come back to his initial idea about unconditional ceasefire. To do that, it should be preceded by maximum pressure again on Putin. That's the only realistic scenario we can think of. The rest is as absolutely -- it's a road to nowhere. SOARES: Can I ask you very briefly, what was your take of Secretary Marco Rubio going to Budapest, standing alongside Viktor Orban and speaking of a golden era of relations between the U.S. and Hungary. Your thoughts? [14:15:00] MEREZHKO: Well, the truth is that unfortunately, the current Prime Minister of Hungary is Putin's ally, and he is trying to undermine, support, and he's trying to block support of the European Union provided to Ukraine during the war, during the war of aggression, during genocidal war which Russia conducts against Ukraine. It means to be on the wrong side of history. And I hope that American Secretary of State, to whom I have tremendous respect, that he managed to persuade Mr. Orban that he is making a huge mistake. He's bringing disgrace to his country. And I hope that Mr. Rubio, who has strategic vision of the situation was helpful in this regard. SOARES: Oleksandr, always great to get your insight, thank you very much for joining us this evening. Now, we're going to turn our attention to the United States because civil rights icon and a towering figure in the movement, Reverend Jesse Jackson has died at the age of 84. He was a long-time activist and two-time presidential candidate who dedicated his life to fighting for racial justice, as well as class equality. Jackson marched alongside Martin Luther King Jr. and founded the Rainbow Push Coalition; a movement focused on political empowerment. His legacy also helped to transform the Democratic Party, paving the way for more progressive alliance. In a social media post, U.S. President Donald Trump was full of praise for Jackson, describing him, quote, as "a good man and a force of nature like few others before him." Those words of gratitude echoed by Jackson's friend Reverend Al Sharpton. He had this cautionary message about the state of U.S. politics. Have a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) AL SHARPTON, CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST: We cannot take the rainbow out of the movement. We cannot take the non-violence out. But we must protect the right to vote. Everything Dr. King and Reverend Jackson stood for is at risk right now. Supreme court is weighing right now, section two of the Voting Rights Act. Right now, we're seeing what's going on with ICE and deportation. So, we have the challenge not to mourn Jesse Jackson, but we need to use our mornings which is what we're going to do, Saturday, to say there must be a movement. He would not want us to have sanctimonious mourning if we weren't going to get up and do the work. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: Well, Abby Phillip looks at Jackson's life achievements and the legacy he leaves behind. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ABBY PHILLIP, CNN ANCHOR (voice-over): Jesse Jackson's life was defined by a relentless fight for justice and equality. JESSE JACKSON, LATE CIVIL RIGHTS ACTIVIST: I was born in Greenville, South Carolina in rampant, radical, racial segregation. I had to be taught to go to the back of the bus or be arrested. PHILLIP: Those early experiences drove Jackson to join the civil rights movement. JACKSON: The fact is, against the odds, we knew there were great odds -- we were winning. PHILLIP: In 1965, he began working for Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. JACKSON: I learned so much from him. He was such a great source of inspiration. PHILLIP: King named Jackson to lead Operation Breadbasket in Chicago; an economic justice campaign for black people. However, some say King was frustrated by Jackson's brashness and ambition. JACKSON: I'm sure he thought I needed more time. I was 24 years old. PHILLIP: Both men were in Memphis in April 1968 to support striking sanitation workers. King and other civil rights leaders were staying at the Lorraine Motel. JACKSON: He said, Jackson, you know, you don't even have on a shirt and tie. You don't even have on a tie. We're going to dinner. I said, doc, it does not require a tie, just an appetite. We laughed. I said doc and the bullet hit. Everything changed at that moment. It was a defining moment in the history of our struggle. PHILLIP: With King gone, his movement was adrift. Years later, Jackson formed Operation Push, pressuring businesses to open up to black workers and customers, and adding more focus on black responsibility championed in the 1972 concert, Wattstax. JACKSON: In what we have shifted from, burn baby burn, to learn baby learn. PHILLIP: And he expanded his own global reach too, helping to free U.S. Lieutenant Robert Goodman, who was held by Syria after being shot down, and later other Americans held in Cuba and Serbia. JACKSON: I learned how to negotiate as an African-American growing up among white people. You have to negotiate every day. PHILLIP: The reverend set his sights on the White House in 1984. JACKSON: Milking cows and I were coming back to the inner cities. And so, I learned a lot during that period. PHILLIP: First thought of as a marginal candidate, Jackson finished third in the primary race with 18 percent of the vote. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: (SINGING) JACKSON: Coming. PHILLIP: That campaign almost went off the rails when Jackson used an ethnic slur to refer to New York Jews. [14:20:00] JACKSON: Just mistakes and the hurt. PHILLIP: He ran again in 1988, this time doubling his vote-count and finishing in second in the Democratic race. JACKSON: Keep hope alive tomorrow night! PHILLIP: At the time, it was the farthest any black candidate had gone in a presidential contest. JACKSON: But 20 years later, when President Barack ran, we were laying the groundwork for that season. PHILLIP: In 2017, Jackson had a new battle to fight. Parkinson's disease, but that didn't stop him. JACKSON: If you hold on, if your cause is right and your grip is tight, you'll make it. PHILLIP: Late in life, he was still fighting. He was arrested in Washington while demonstrating for voting rights. His silent presence at the trial of Ahmaud Arbery's killers, prompted defense lawyers to ask that he leave the courtroom. Jackson stayed. JACKSON: I am -- CROWD: I am -- JACKSON: Somebody. CROWD: Somebody. JACKSON: I am -- CROWD: I am -- JACKSON: Somebody. PHILLIP: From the Jim Crow south, through the turbulent '60s and into the Black Lives Matter movement, Jesse Jackson was a constant unyielding voice for justice. (END VIDEOTAPE) SOARES: A trailblazer in so many ways. And still to come tonight, how Jesse Jackson became such a driving force politically and morally. We'll discuss the chair of Jackson's Rainbow Push Coalition and his long-time lawyer. That's coming up. But first, new details just coming in. The search for Nancy Guthrie, the very latest after the break. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) SOARES: Well, the sheriff's department in Pima County, Arizona, says there's been no hit on DNA tests on a glove found near the home of Nancy Guthrie. The DNA did not match any known offender profiles in the official federal database. And this comes after the sheriff announced that Guthrie's family and their spouses have been cleared as suspects in the 84-year-old's disappearance. Nancy Guthrie was reported missing on February the 1st. She is the mother of "NBC Today" show anchor Savannah Guthrie. Joining us now is Josh Campbell. So, Josh, this is going to be quite a setback, I imagine. Where does this leave the investigation? The fact that there's no DNA found on this glove. JOSH CAMPBELL, CNN CORRESPONDENT: Well, that would have been the quickest step to possibly identify a suspect here. If that DNA that was recovered from a glove near Nancy Guthrie's home actually matched someone in the FBI database. [14:25:00] And this database contains known or suspected criminals who have already been in the U.S. federal court system. But that's not the case here. And so, they will have to now move on to additional steps. One thing we expect they're doing right now is actually taking advantage of this new field of science called Genetic Familial DNA Mapping. And that's a lot of these public commercial services available to the general public around the world where, you know, you can track your own lineage, see where your ancestors came from. Law enforcement now works very closely with those entities. And if it does appear that this DNA profile can be submitted there, that could be useful, because even if the suspect himself never took part in one of these programs, a family member may have. And because familial DNA is so like each other, similar in nature that could help them identify a potential relative and then maybe the suspect. Again, this requires a lot of work. This is certainly not a panacea. Finally, as they work to determine who the suspect is, Isa, you just mentioned there, we know who it's not. And the sheriff saying that the Guthrie family has been ruled out. That came after there were these numerous, you know, irresponsible claims by social media amateur sleuths and true crime enthusiasts suggesting that a family member may have been involved. The sheriff saying that is absolutely not true. They ruled them out. He's also saying they've been nothing but cooperative. SOARES: And I'm seeing here the glove with DNA on it, was one of approximately 16 found near Guthrie's home. Of all the other options, have all the other gloves been discarded? What are you hearing on that front? CAMPBELL: So, authorities said this was the only one that they believe is actually associated with this case -- SOARES: Right -- CAMPBELL: And actually, I mean, it seems a bit sloppy, they say a lot of those gloves they believe were actually discarded by searchers who were out there in and around this area, which I'm sure they'll have some offline conversations about the techniques of their search efforts. But we did learn that they believe that the one that was recovered, they believe visually matched the one that was seen on that doorbell camera footage, which is why it came under such scrutiny. But of course, now authorities saying that, that DNA that was on there is not identified with anyone that is known. One thing we are still waiting for, Isa, is an update from officials, and that is, they say that DNA at the home was -- SOARES: Yes -- CAMPBELL: Also discovered. And so, we don't yet know if that DNA matches the DNA of the glove, which could still be critical. Again, they're looking for any possible clue right now. SOARES: Josh, appreciate it. Thank you. CAMPBELL: Always. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) CHRIS NANOS, SHERIFF, PIMA COUNTY: I plead with you to be careful of what it is we put out there. You could actually be doing some damage to the case, but you can do some damage to that individual too. This is -- social media is kind of a -- kind of an ugly world sometimes. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: And that was Chris Nanos, the Pima County sheriff, two weeks ago warning people against putting out any unverified information that might jeopardize the investigation. But in this social media area -- era, there are droves of citizen sleuths and influencers trying to crack Nancy Guthrie's case. Our chief media analyst, Brian Stelter takes a closer look at the online intrigue. (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) ALMA HERNANDEZ, ARIZONA STATE REPRESENTATIVE: What we're seeing in our community and our city right now is just not normal. BRIAN STELTER, CNN MEDIA ANALYST (voice-over): That's Arizona state lawmaker Alma Hernandez, fed up with the misinformation being peddled online and on the ground. HERNANDEZ: We have individuals who are calling themselves journalists, who are YouTubers and quite frankly, just really random individuals who are out there with their cameras and live-streaming. But I think at the end of the day, what we need to be talking about is the fact that these individuals are actually -- like I said, causing more harm than good. STELTER: In one instance, a delivery driver tried to deliver a pizza at Nancy Guthrie's door. According to local reports, someone ordered the pizza for an unidentified blogger at the scene. The sheriff's department incredulously called it out, saying, "we can't believe we have to say this. Do not order food delivery to a crime scene address." UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It's the fear of missing out. STELTER: John DiPietro(ph) is a streamer from Rhode Island who flew to Tucson to cover the case. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: The type of content I do -- Nancy Guthrie update, all right, a couple of things. It's not for someone that just wants to watch the news and get a quick -- it's for the people that can't get enough of it. STELTER: DiPietro(ph) says he uses his own sources and aggregates from others that he trusts. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: There are certain key people that I depend on and I use as a source. John Miller is one. There's few people that are as knowledgeable as he is. STELTER: But DiPietro(ph) admits that others online are not as disciplined. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: It gets tiresome because they just totally go on rumor. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: But yes, there's always a bad streamer once in a while or somebody who does something maybe not correct, but I think the audience is wising up to the smart ones. Here we go, we got -- oh wow, look at this, soil -- STELTER: Andy Senor(ph) is another YouTuber who's been doing this for years. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: We have a million subscribers on YouTube and we're on Instagram and most of the other ones as well. There's that view, sunset is coming. STELTER: Senor(ph) flew all the way from Tampa to cover the case. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: My parents live in Tucson, and so it hit home a little harder for me just because I was like, this is tragic and scary, and I wanted to make sure that there was enough people really spotlighting the case. Because I'm worried some of the authorities haven't been as on top of it as maybe they should have been. [14:30:02] STELTER (voice-over): Signore says he first covered the Gabby Petito mystery about five years ago, and that story showed him just how curious the true crime audience can be. SIGNORE: That's what's I think really impressive about our streamers is the audiences are so invested, they want to be there 24/7, they want to help. STELTER (voice-over): But while Signore and DiPetro have remained responsible in their coverage, other streamers and influencers have not. STATE REP. ALMA HERNANDEZ (D-AZ): Alma Hernandez I don't think anyone enjoys in our community seeing that an individual who they, you know, got a tip saying that they are a suspect is now all-over social media and everyone, you know, calling them the kidnapper, right? STELTER (voice-over): She points to last Friday's SWAT activity at a nearby home as a prime example. The operation ended with no arrests, but wild claims online spread so rapidly that the Sheriff's Department had to issue a rare post to refute them as, quote, "not accurate." Brian Stelter, CNN, New York. (END VIDEOTAPE) SOARES: Our thanks to Brian for that report. Well, the mayor of Los Angeles says the head of the L.A. Olympics should step down because of information about him revealed in the Epstein files. Karen Bass says Casey Wasserman's flirtatious emails with Ghislaine Maxwell are causing a distraction for the 2028 L.A. Games. Other people are also feeling the impact of being named in the Epstein files. Billionaire Thomas Pritzker has stepped down as executive chairman of Hyatt Hotels. He said he never should have remained friends with Epstein after Epstein was convicted of sex crimes. And Hillary Clinton is accusing the Trump administration of hiding information in the Epstein files. The former U.S. Secretary of State tells the BBC that the redactions and slow release of Epstein's emails are part of a cover-up. Hillary and her husband, former President Bill Clinton, are due to testify to Congress about their connections to Epstein later this month. She says Republicans are treating the Clintons unfairly and trying to distract from President Trump's ties to Epstein. Have a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) HILLARY CLINTON, FORMER U.S. SECRETARY OF STATE: I think everybody should testify who have asked to testify. I just want it to be fair. I want everybody treated the same way. That's not true for my husband and me, because other witnesses were asked to testify, they gave written statements under oath. We offered that. They want to pull us. Why did they want to pull us into this? To divert attention from President Trump. This is not complicated. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: And still to come tonight, remembering civil rights leader Jesse Jackson. I'll speak with Jackson's lawyer who knew him for more than three decades. Reflections on his legacy just ahead. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [14:35:00] SOARES: Welcome back, everyone. We stood on his shoulders, that is how the Obamas are remembering Jesse Jackson. His tributes continue to pour in. A giant of the U.S. civil rights movement and a protege of Martin Luther King Jr., Jackson fought tirelessly for racial justice and class equality going back all the way to the 1960s. He died surrounded by his family at the age of 84 after a long battle with a neurological disorder. Jackson's signature line, "Keep Hope Alive," still resonates as a call to action today. He repeated it so often that some began to parody it, but it never lost meaning for him. Have a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JESSE JACKSON, CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER: Don't you surrender. Suffering breeds character, character breeds faith. In the end, faith will not disappoint. You must not surrender. You may or may not get there, but just know that you are qualified when you hold on and hold out. We must never surrender. America will get better and better. Keep hope alive. Keep hope alive. Keep hope alive. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: What a legend. Well, for more on Jesse Jackson's legacy, I'm joined now by CK Hoffler. She's the chair of the Rainbow PUSH Coalition and was Jackson's lawyer for more than three decades. CK, welcome to the show and condolences to you. I know you knew him for many, many years. Just share those personal moments with our viewers. How will you remember him? TRICIA "CK" HOFFLER, COUNSEL TO REV. JESSE JACKSON AND COUNSEL TO RAINBOW PUSH COALITION: Well, I will remember Reverend Jackson, this iconic leader who I've had the pleasure of serving as his lawyer for 38 years as someone who had extraordinary passion and who really, really cared about people. He cared about social justice. He cared about injustice. He cared about the labor movement. He cared about civil rights. He cared about human rights. He cared about solidarity. So, the caring that we know Reverend Jackson had and his passion is what I will probably always remember him for. And he was absolutely brilliant, shrewd, a strategist, a dynamic political leader, and someone who always was many, many, many steps ahead of most people. And so, as one of his lawyers, I had to be many, many, many steps ahead as well because he was so brilliant and so dynamic. SOARES: And, CK, what kept him motivated? You know, after all those years, you knew from many years, you were saying that you had to keep a pace with him. What motivated him? HOFFLER: I think the need to help people, the need to fight injustice, the need to give people hope. When he said keep hope alive, he meant keep hope alive. When he said, I am somebody and told people to repeat that, he believed it, he inspired people. And that is what caused him to want to get up day in and day out. Even when his health was failing him, he still got up. He still was preaching. His voice was still resonating because he wanted to help. SOARES: I was reading an interview, part of an interview he did, CK, here in the U.K. with British newspaper in 2020. I'm going to quote what he said. He said, "I was a trailblazer. I was a pathfinder. I had to deal with doubt and cynicism and fears about a black person running. There were black scholars writing papers about why I was wasting my time. Even blacks said a black couldn't win." 20 years later, of course, Barack Obama became president. In the last few hours, we heard Barack Obama saying, we stood on his shoulders. How much did he really pave the way for that moment for Barack Obama? Because I remember seeing him in tears, of course, when Barack Obama became president. HOFFLER: Well, he absolutely paved the way for President Barack Obama. He paved the way for Ron Brown to become the first African-American chair of the DNC. He paved the way for so many. And when we say paved the way, because of his negotiation style, his tenacity, his diligence, and because of the fact that he was so vastly and widely popular amongst the people, he was able to negotiate changes to the DNC, changes to voting rights, changes. And that is what paved the way. That's what created the vehicle so that 20 years later, we could have a President Barack Obama. But they said it best, they stand on his shoulders. But he paved the way for generations of people globally, not just in the United States. [14:40:00] SOARES: He was also a political trailblazer. He ran twice for president in the 1980s. And then I believe it was after his first presidential run that he then created the National Rainbow Coalition, which later became the Rainbow PUSH Coalition, of which, of course, you are chair. And this is where -- and correct me if I'm wrong here, CK, where he continued to push for social justice. Can you speak to the lives he has changed along the way? HOFFLER: He's changed the lives of so many, not only changing the fabric of the United, the political fabric in the United States. He changed the lives of so many globally. But just on an individual level, the movement that he had, he changed the lives of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people because of his undying desire for justice, for the least of these, for people letting them know that their vote counted, registering untold numbers of voters, breaking records with voter registration, going to cities, to states, to counties, and making sure that people register, going into jails and registering people who were incarcerated in states where that was permissible, breaking through barriers, refusing to be denied, not being stopped even when the law said he needed to be stopped, nonviolent protests. And I could go on and on. How about freeing people from jails internationally? And setting the standard so high when governments couldn't do it, when third parties couldn't do it, Reverend Jesse Lewis Jackson Sr. could. So, I mean, I could go on and on and on. 38 years of defending him. But we celebrate his life. Yes, we mourn the loss of an icon. SOARES: What an incredible friendship. Yes, incredible friendships that you both have. I just want to have a very quick question because I was listening to Reverend Al Sharpton earlier today addressing the media. And he said something that stood out for me. He said, and I'm going to quote him, "Everything Jesse Jackson fought for is at risk." He started talking about voting rights. He started talking about ICE and deportation tactics. How do you think Jesse Jackson, a man, of course, known as you just explained there for bridging divides? How do you think he would view what's going on in the U.S. right now? HOFFLER: With a great deal of distress. He would want people to protest nonviolently what is going on. He would not be happy. He was not happy. And his voice resonated until the end. SOARES: CK, really appreciate you taking time to speak to us. What an incredible friendship to know someone like Reverend Jesse Jackson is fantastic. He was really a consequential and transformative politician of our time. Thank you, CK. HOFFLER: Thank you. SOARES: We're going to take a short break. We'll see you on the other side. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [14:45:00] SOARES: Well, no fuel, no tourists and no cash, that's what Cuba is grappling with as U.S. imposed oil blockade brings the island's economy to its knees. Speaking on Monday, the U.S. president urged Havana to make a deal to avert a humanitarian crisis. Just have a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) DONALD TRUMP, U.S. PRESIDENT: Cuba is right now a failed nation and they don't even have jet fuel to get for airplanes to take off. They're clogging up their runway. We're talking to Cuba right now and Marco Rubio is talking to Cuba right now, and they should absolutely make a deal, because it's really a humanitarian threat. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: Communications between Cuban and U.S. officials have so far yielded little results and details of what a deal could entail are unclear. Although speaking to Bloomberg, Secretary of State Marco Rubio pointed to pushing Havana to adopt economic reforms. This, as conditions on the island get worse by the day. Major airlines are cancelling flights and garbage trucks, as you can see there, rubbish trucks are pausing services due to fuel shortages. Breaking news just to bring you out of South America. Peru's Congress has just voted to remove President Jose Jeri from office. The right-wing leader stands accused in a scandal over undisclosed meetings with a Chinese businessman. Mr. Jeri's successor will be the South American nation's, get this, eighth president. Eighth president in as many years. The president's now the third consecutive Peruvian leader to be removed from office. We'll stay across this breaking news story coming to you from Peru. While it could be a sign of the Trump administration's mounting pressure on media, late night talk show host Stephen Colbert is slamming CBS lawyers for scrapping a taped interview with Democratic candidate James Talarico, who is running in the Texas Democratic Senate primary. Colbert's show later posted that interview on YouTube. Just have a listen. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) STEPHEN COLBERT, HOST, "THE LATE SHOW WITH STEPHEN COLBERT": You know who is not one of my guests tonight? That's Texas State Representative James Talarico. He was supposed to be here, but we were told in no uncertain terms by our network's lawyers who called us directly that we could not have him on the broadcast. Then, then I was told in some uncertain terms that not only could I not have him on, I could not mention me not having him on. And because my network clearly doesn't want us to talk about this, let's talk about this. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: And that makes you watch and click without a doubt. Well, that issue, the SEC's equal time rule, which requires networks give equal airtime to political candidates. There are exemptions for news coverage, and those used to apply to late night and daytime talk shows as well. Our chief media analyst, Brian Stelter, joins us now with more. So, Brian, the interview for Brian Stelter did go ahead, but not on CBS, but on YouTube. So, what are you hearing from CBS leadership about this? This is causing a lot of eyes, a lot of attention on this. STELTER: Yes, a lot of attention around the Trump administration's pressure campaign against broadcast TV networks, this being the most recent example. And just a few minutes ago, CBS did issue a statement that takes a different point of view about what happened with Colbert. Let's put it that way. CBS says the late show was not prohibited by CBS from airing the interview with James Talarico. Instead, the show was, quote, "provided legal guidance" that the broadcast could trigger the government's equal time rule and was given ideas for how to solve that problem. And then the show, according to CBS, decided on its own to air the interview over on YouTube instead. So, what does that mean? It means CBS is taking the Trump administration's most recent threat in a serious way. It's indicating that CBS doesn't know what the legal or regulatory landscape is right now. And so, CBS was acting out of an abundance of caution not to invoke these equal time rules. Equal time rules kind of go way back in American regulatory history. And they are rarely enforced in a dramatic fashion. Equal time rules mean that for local stations, if you have one candidate for office on the airwaves, then you have to book the rival candidates as well. But those rules do not apply to news programs. And for the last two decades, those rules have also been thought not to apply to late-night talk shows or daytime talk shows either. Now, the Trump-aligned SEC chairman, Brennan Carr, is saying, don't assume that anymore. If you're a late-night show, especially a Trump critic, then we might apply these rules to you. [14:50:00] It's been very clear that Carr is using the government powers to punish liberal critics and liberal voices on TV. The government has actually very little power to enforce those rules though. So, it really comes down to whether the networks are willing to self-censor, whether the networks are willing to think twice about who they bring on the show and what they say. And that is what seems to have happened in this case at CBS. And that's why it's created such a controversy in the U.S. today. SOARES: And is this equal-time rule mandate, does that apply -- just to explain this for our international audience, Brian, does it apply for radio shows, for TV shows? I wonder if it's the same rule for all. STELTER: Only on radio and TV that's broadcast over the public airways in the U.S. And honestly, there's a lot of folks in the U.S. who say these rules just seem really out of date, really obsolete. We heard from the group FIRE, the Foundation for Individual Rights and Free Expression today, saying these rules should have been tossed out decades ago. These rules don't make any sense in the era of YouTube and TikTok. And this most recent kerfuffle just proves that point. But for the Trump administration, for President Trump and his allies, these old-fashioned rules are a form of leverage. They're a form of power over stations and their owners. And CBS parent company Paramount is uniquely vulnerable to that right now. Paramount is mounting a hostile takeover bid, trying to buy CNN and the rest of Warner Bros. Discovery. And part of Paramount's argument is that it has a close relationship with the Trump administration and will win regulatory approval of that deal. Earlier today, WBD said it's going to open up a seven-day window for fresh negotiations with Paramount, even though there is a deal with Netflix that's already moving forward. So, you have this effort by some major media companies to make sure they are not only cozy, but the word is cozy. You have cozy relationships with the Trump administration. And the question is, how does that trickle down to a late-night show like Colbert's? And does Colbert feel that pressure as a result? Well, for Colbert, he's canceled, right? He's already been canceled. He's off the air in four months. So, he seems free to do whatever he wants for another four months. SOARES: Yes, he probably has nothing to lose. But important context that you added on the business front with Paramount, of course, that's very important. Thank you very much, Brian. Great to see you. We're going to take a short break. We'll see you on the other side. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) SOARES: Well, more than a billion people in China and beyond are ringing in the year of the fire horse, the Lunar New Year is a time for hopes and aspirations for the year ahead. Festivities and traditions do vary by region. Our Mike Valerio has the view from Beijing for you. [14:55:00] (BEGIN VIDEOTAPE) MIKE VALERIO, CNN INTERNATIONAL CORRESPONDENT: So, when you look at this main axis of Ditan Park here in Beijing, the beautiful red lanterns, so much of the city clears out with families going to see their old hometown, seeing relatives that are spread throughout China. So, much of Beijing clears out, except for temple fairs like this where myriad tourists and families who remain in Beijing, they all come together for these incredible snacks to share red packets, of course, and toys and games. Just such a shared experience and community here in Ditan Park. Mike Valerio, CNN, Beijing. (END VIDEO CLIP) SOARES: Happy New Year to everyone. And finally, tonight, China is welcoming the Spring Festival and ringing in the knee of the horse with a dazzling decorations, countrywide celebrations and Kung Fu, humanoid robots, a group of young kung fu artists teamed up with the bots for unique knockout performance during the Spring Festival Gala today. And that does it for us for tonight. Do stay right here. "What We Know" with Max Foster is up next. (COMMERCIAL BREAK) [15:00:00] END