article_id: cnn_94
url: https://www.cnn.com/profiles/lauren-lee
title: Lauren Lee - Producer, CNN Global Productions
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Lauren Lee is an award-winning journalist and producer with CNN Global Productions, based in Atlanta. With more than 20 years of experience in journalism, broadcast media, and corporate communications, she combines editorial vision with a passion for amplifying diverse voices and driving meaningful storytelling across platforms. Her work reflects a commitment to inclusion, authenticity, and social impact—principles that define both her career and her community outreach.
As co-lead producer of the acclaimed African Voices franchise— Changemakers, Playmakers, and My Drive —Lee oversees multimillion-dollar branded storytelling that celebrates innovators, entrepreneurs, and cultural trailblazers across Africa and the diaspora. Her leadership has helped the series become a global platform for African excellence, inspiring audiences through compelling long-form television and digital storytelling. Under her direction, African Voices and CNN’s Impact Your World have generated millions of social media interactions and strengthened engagement between CNN’s global platforms and diverse audiences.
Lee’s creative work has earned major recognition, including the Warner Bros. Discovery Stellar Award (2025) for exemplifying company guiding principles, a Gold Anthem Award for Champions for Change , a NAMIC Vision Award for Breakthrough Women , and contributions to CNN’s Peabody Award-winning coverage of the Arab Spring. Her storytelling also extends to advocacy journalism, including participation in Save the Children’s first U.S. Press Fellowship, which took her to Appalachia and the Mississippi Delta to report on childhood poverty.
Before joining CNN in 2011, Lee built a strong foundation in Detroit’s media landscape. At WXYZ-TV (ABC) from 2005 to 2007, she quickly advanced from production assistant to writer and associate producer, developing content for five daily newscasts within six months of hire. She wrote for the 2007 Emmy-winning noon newscast and field produced major events such as the Detroit Grand Prix and Woodward Dream Cruise, while helping modernize coverage to include expanded online and community storytelling. Earlier in her career, she worked for the Journal Register Company’s The Voice News as a staff writer, where she reported on community affairs across northern Macomb County and developed strong relationships with local leaders and residents.
A proud graduate of Kent State University, with degrees in Broadcast Journalism and Pan-African Studies, Lee continues to build pathways for the next generation of Black journalists and storytellers. She founded a journalism scholarship at Mt. Clemens High School and mentors students through Macomb Cable Network, guiding them in producing community-based stories that spotlight local Black businesses and voices.
Within CNN and Warner Bros. Discovery, Lee serves on the International Inclusion Council, where she led a team to develop growth strategies for the African market—enhancing local talent through targeted training and fostering connections between African storytellers and CNN’s global teams. She also helps design professional development programs within WBD’s BOLD BEYOND, the company’s Black Business Resource Group.
Beyond the newsroom, Lee is a dedicated Lupus awareness advocate, openly sharing her personal journey with the chronic autoimmune illness to inspire others and raise visibility for Lupus research and patient support. Her resilience and transparency have enabled her to mentor and encourage others living with invisible illnesses while balancing a demanding career in global media.
From her production leadership to her mentorship and advocacy, Lauren Lee continues to embody the power of storytelling to connect communities, celebrate diversity, and drive change. Through her work, she champions authenticity, elevates underrepresented voices, and helps shape a more inclusive landscape in global media.
© 2026 Cable News Network. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved. CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
Scan the QR code to download the CNN app on Google Play.
Scan the QR code to download the CNN app from the Apple Store.