article_id: fox_111
url: https://www.foxnews.com/entertainment/margot-robbie-jacob-elordi-developed-intense-chemistry-filming-wuthering-heights
title: Margot Robbie and Jacob Elordi developed intense chemistry filming 'Wuthering Heights'
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Li Jun Li discussed working with Brad Pitt and Margot Robbie on ‘Babylon,’ saying they were both very kind on set and that Pitt is just as handsome in real life as he is on screen.
Jacob Elordi and Margot Robbie developed intense on and off-screen chemistry while filming "Wuthering Heights."
Emerald Fennell's film adaption of Emily Brontë's 1847 novel, "Wuthering Heights," stars Elordi as Heathcliff and Robbie as Catherine Earnshaw. The movie is based in the 18th century and depicts a heartbreaking and destructive romance.
The Australian actors did lots of press leading up to the Feb. 13 release of the romance film. A month before the release, Robbie and Elordi sat down for a Fandango interview panel and admitted she became "codependent" on the 28-year-old actor quite quickly.
Jacob Elordi and Margot Robbie star in the recently released "Wuthering Heights." (Getty Images)
"I remember the first couple days on set, he would just be, like, always in the vicinity of where I was but in a corner watching. On the third day, I found myself starting to look around to see where he was. I was like, ‘Well, obviously he’s going to be somewhere close by. Where is he right now?'" Robbie, 35, said.
The "Barbie" star explained that once she was unable to spot Elordi, she became "unnerved and unmoored."
"I felt quite lost. Like a kid without their blanket or something. I was like, ‘Where is he?’"
"I felt quite lost. Like a kid without their blanket or something. I was like, ‘Where is he?’" Robbie said.
Eloridi felt the pair had a "mutual obsession."
"Regardless of plot or screenplay , if you have the opportunity to share a film set with Margot Robbie, you’re going to make sure you’re within five to 10 all the time. Watching how she drinks tea, how she eats her food," Elordi explained.
Jacob Elordi and Margot Robbie attended the world premiere of "Wuthering Heights" Jan. 28. (Olivia Wong/WireImage)
The "Euphoria" actor admitted he quickly became "enamored" with Robbie.
During an appearance on the "Today" show Jan. 30, Robbie said Fennell wanted to ensure the pair had a strong connection while filming and created shrines of the stars in each of their dressing rooms.
"At the studio, we both had a dressing room. Emerald went into our dressing rooms and made a shrine of each other in our dressing rooms," Robbie said. Elordi accompanied her during the interview and called Fennell's choice "funny" and "fantastic."
Jacob Elordi and Margot Robbie attended the "Wuthering Heights" U.K. premiere Feb. 5. (Shane Anthony Sinclair/Getty Images)
"It was so unhinged and so hilarious," Robbie added. "And she put, like, locks of hair and pictures of us, candles and made a full shrine. ... Mine was a Jacob shrine. He had a Margot shrine. It was so funny."
Elordi admitted that his adoration for Robbie started long before being cast as her co-star.
During the "Today" show appearance, Elordi said he became a fan of Robbie after seeing her in the Australian soap opera "Neighbours."
Elordi and Robbie star opposite one another in "Wuthering Heights." (Getty Images)
"I wanted to act, so I had a hit list of every working Australian actor on my wall so I could find their agents and things that they’d been in," he explained.
LIKE WHAT YOU’RE READING? CLICK HERE FOR MORE ENTERTAINMENT NEWS
It wasn't until Elordi saw Robbie in "The Wolf of Wall Street" that he knew she was now "a global phenomenon."
"You came out in that film and something changed in the world, in my world," Eloridi told Robbie.
Ahead of the pair's lengthy press tour, Robbie created and gifted Elordi a matching, custom ring, Cece Jewellery told Fox News Digital.
Margot Robbie customized matching rings with Jacob Elordi. (CeCe Jewellery)
Jacob Elordi and Margot Robbie wearing their matching rings. (CeCe Jewellery)
Cece Fein Hughes, the jewelry designer, told Fox News Digital, "It was such a special request to create these matching rings, not only to honor ‘Wuthering Heights,’ but also the characters and the time Margot and Jacob spent together bringing the film to life.
"Margot gifting this to Jacob offered such a beautiful insight into how deeply connected you can become when working together on something so powerful and romantic."
She said the rings symbolize Robbie and Elordi's characters, Heathcliff and Catherine, and a love that transcends time.
Margot Robbie attended Warner Bros. Pictures and MRC's world premiere of "Wuthering Heights" Jan. 28. (Amy Sussman/Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR THE ENTERTAINMENT NEWSLETTER
The chunky, gold signet rings feature two hand-enameled skulls stuck in an embrace and surrounded by thorns, which were designed "to symbolize both bittersweet love and the harshness of nature," CeCe Jewellery told Fox News Digital.
Jacob Elordi said he and Margot Robbie have a "mutual obsession." (Getty Images)
The rings also have an inscription of one of Brontë's most famous lines from the book: "Whatever our souls are made of, his and mine are the same." The rings also have the dates "1847-2026" inscribed, referencing the book and movie's release.
"Wuthering Heights" released in theaters Feb. 13.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Janelle Ash is an entertainment writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to janelle.ash@fox.com .