article_id: fox_120
url: https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-responds-supreme-court-ruling-rejecting-sweeping-tariffs-powers-disgrace
title: Trump signs off on 10% global tariff, criticizes Supreme Court justices after ruling
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
President Donald Trump on Friday said the administration has "alternatives" to tariffs, noting he will sign an order imposing a 10% global tariff.
President Donald Trump on Friday signed an order imposing a 10% "global tariff" following the Supreme Court's 6-3 decision that he does not have the authority to levy sweeping tariffs under a specific emergency powers law.
"It is my Great Honor to have just signed, from the Oval Office, a Global 10% Tariff on all Countries, which will be effective almost immediately," Trump wrote in a Truth Social post Friday evening.
The order was issued under Section 122 and applies in addition to the standard tariffs that are already in place, the president announced during a White House press briefing Friday afternoon.
He also announced the launch of several Section 301 investigations and other inquiries aimed at shielding the U.S. from what he described as unfair trade practices by foreign governments and companies.
The high court blocked Trump's tariffs levied under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act in what amounts to a major test of executive branch authority.
The president noted he will pursue "alternatives" to tariffs under emergency law.
"Other alternatives will now be used to replace the ones that the court incorrectly rejected," Trump said. "We have alternatives. Great alternatives. Could be more money. We'll take in more money, and we'll be a lot stronger for it. We're taking in hundreds of billions of dollars. We'll continue to do so."
President Donald Trump speaks during a press briefing at the White House, Friday, Feb. 20, 2026, in Washington, as Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik, looks on. (AP Photo/Evan Vucci)
Trump called the ruling "deeply disappointing," saying he was "ashamed" of certain members of the court.
"I'm ashamed of certain members of the court, absolutely ashamed, for not having the courage to do what's right for our country," the president said. "In actuality, I was very modest in my ask of other countries and businesses because… I wanted to be very well-behaved.
"I didn't want to do anything that would affect the decision of the court, because I understand the court. I understand how they are very easily swayed. I want to be a good boy. I have very effectively utilized tariffs over the past year to make America great again," he said.
A source outside the Trump administration told Fox News that an aide came into the closed-door White House breakfast with governors earlier Friday and handed Trump a note about the Supreme Court ruling.
The source said Trump "called it a disgrace, and then he went on with the remarks."
Some of the Supreme Court's nine justices will likely be sitting in the audience when the president delivers the State of the Union address on Tuesday.
"The Democrats on the court are thrilled, but they will automatically vote no," Trump said during the news conference. "They also are a, frankly, disgrace to our nation… They're very unpatriotic and disloyal to our Constitution. It's my opinion that the court has been swayed by foreign interests and a political movement that is far smaller than people would ever think."
In the opinion, the high court declared , "Our task today is to decide only whether the power to ‘regulate… importation,’ as granted to the President in IEEPA, embraces the power to impose tariffs. It does not."
Trump has made tariffs a key plank of his economic agenda since retaking the Oval Office last year, but his policies have not come without controversy.
SUPREME COURT DEALS BLOW TO TRUMP'S TRADE AGENDA IN LANDMARK TARIFF CASE
The U.S. Supreme Court as seen on Feb. 20, 2026, in Washington, D.C. (Heather Diehl/Getty Images)
Republican reaction to the ruling has been mixed.
Rep. Buddy Carter, R-Ga., slammed the high court's decision.
"The Supreme Court just undercut the President’s ability to defend American workers. President Donald Trump was elected to fight unfair trade and stop the United States from being ripped off. I’m outraged by this decision; it's clearly judicial overreach," Carter asserted in a post on X.
But Sen. Rand Paul , R-Ky., welcomed the ruling.
"In defense of our Republic, the Supreme Court struck down using emergency powers to enact taxes. This ruling will also prevent a future President such as AOC from using emergency powers to enact socialism," Paul noted in a post on X.
ELECTION INTEGRITY GROUPS PRESS SUPREME COURT TO REQUIRE BALLOTS BY ELECTION DAY
Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., speaks to reporters as he returns to his office at the U.S. Capitol on Feb. 10, 2026, in Washington, D.C. (Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Rep. Don Bacon, R-Neb., also hailed the decision.
"The Constitution’s checks and balances still work. Article One gives tariff authority to Congress. This was a common-sense and straightforward ruling by the Supreme Court. I feel vindicated as I’ve been saying this for the last 12 months. In the future, Congress should defend its own authorities and not rely on the Supreme Court. Besides the Constitutional concerns I had on the Administration’s broad-based tariffs, I also do not think tariffs are smart economic policy. Broad-based tariffs are bad economics," Bacon wrote in a post on X.
House Speaker Mike Johnson, R-La., said Congress and the administration will determine the "best path forward" in the coming weeks.
"No one can deny that the President’s use of tariffs has brought in billions of dollars and created immense leverage for America’s trade strategy and for securing strong, reciprocal America-first trade agreements with countries that had been taking advantage of American workers for decades," Johnson wrote in an X post.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation.
She has covered major national crises, including the L.A. wildfires, Potomac and Hudson River aviation disasters, Boulder terror attack, and Texas Hill Country floods.