article_id: fox_128
url: https://www.foxnews.com/politics/supreme-court-shuts-down-california-gop-bid-block-newsoms-new-map
title: Supreme Court shuts down California GOP bid to block Newsom's new map
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News chief congressional correspondent Chad Pergram reports on redistricting battles in Texas and California, and how a pending Supreme Court Voting Rights Act case could shift House control ahead of the 2026 midterms.
The Supreme Court cleared the way for California to use its newly redrawn congressional map, which shifts five seats in Democrats’ favor, in the 2026 midterm elections.
The high court's decision to decline to take up an emergency appeal from California Republicans comes after voters in the state approved a ballot measure called Proposition 50, which allowed the state to enact the Democrat-friendly map in time for the midterms. The justices' decision included no dissents or explanation.
State Republicans, joined by the Department of Justice , had sued Democratic Gov. Gavin Newsom, alleging the map was an illegal racial gerrymander, in part because the mapmaker, Paul Mitchell, touted that it would bolster the Latino vote.
Gov. Gavin Newsom speaks at a "Yes On Prop 50" volunteer event in Los Angeles, California. (Getty Images)
California lawyers argued to the high court that those claims were insufficient to meet the high burden required to overturn the map. They also said no district actually gained Latino residents of voting age.
"None of the stray statements invoked by plaintiffs … reveals any race-based motive, let alone a racial motivation that predominates over all others," the California lawyers wrote.
Proposition 50, according to Newsom, was a way to fight what he called President Donald Trump's "power grab in Texas," which passed its own map intended to give Republicans five seats.
The Supreme Court building is seen in Washington, D.C. (AP/Jon Elswick)
Newsom and Republican Gov. Greg Abbott both professed that their redistricting efforts were grounded in politics and that race was not a predominant factor in the map drawing process.
But lawyers for California Republicans argued to the Supreme Court that state officials "harbored another purpose as well: maximizing Latino voting strength to shore up Latino support for the Democratic Party." The lawyers called Proposition 50 a "pernicious and unconstitutional use of race."
The Supreme Court greenlit Texas’ map in December, reversing a lower court decision that had blocked it. Its decision on California's map now effectively cancels out the two states' mid-cycle redistricting maneuvers.
Texas Sen. Phil King displays a map during a hearing on Aug. 7, 2025, in Austin, Texas. (Brandon Bell/Getty Images)
The voting rights groups who challenged Texas and Republican Gov. Greg Abbott claimed that the map was an illegal racial gerrymander, but the high court said the groups could not offer an alternative map that served Texas’ political needs. In the 6-3 unsigned order, the justices also said the lower court should not have "interfered with an active primary campaign, causing much confusion and upsetting the delicate federal-state balance in elections." The three liberal justices dissented.
The decision in Texas was issued on an emergency basis while the case proceeds, but the court schedule signals that the state's map will remain in place through at least the 2026 elections.
Fox News Digital reached out to Republican Assemblyman David Tangipa and the DOJ for comment.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Tangipa, who led the lawsuit, noted that Republicans' appeal to the Supreme Court was made on an emergency basis and that litigation would continue, even though the map will stay in place this year.
"The case will now head back to the lower court to be ruled on," Tangipa said. "While this is happening, California will proceed with the Prop 50 maps and we will continue to work on this issue until the very end."
Ashley Oliver is a reporter for Fox News Digital and FOX Business, covering the Justice Department and legal affairs. Email story tips to ashley.oliver@fox.com .