article_id: fox_130
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/family-member-american-killed-cuban-forces-boat-shootout-diabolical-mission
title: Family member of American killed by Cuban forces in boat shootout says he was on 'diabolical' mission
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Rep. Carlos Gimenez, R-Fla., addresses Cuba's claim of a deadly shootout with a U.S.-registered speedboat that killed four.
The brother of an American citizen killed in a brazen boat clash with Cuban forces says his sibling was consumed by an "obsessive and diabolical" push to free the island and that "no one knew" what he was planning.
American citizen Michel Ortega Casanova, who worked as a truck driver, was one of 10 passengers on a Florida-registered boat that allegedly opened fire on Cuban soldiers in an attempt to infiltrate the island.
A Monroe County Sheriff's Office incident report obtained by Fox News noted the boat's owner reported it stolen Wednesday after hearing about the Cuba shootout on the news.
The owner, who did not speak English, told deputies his 24-foot vessel went missing, and he suspected an employee named Hector — who had two young daughters in Cuba — may have taken it.
U.S. Secretary of State Marco Rubio addressed an incident involving Cuban forces and a speedboat Wednesday before returning to Washington, D.C., after meetings with Caribbean Community leaders at Robert L. Bradshaw International Airport in Basseterre, Saint Kitts and Nevis. (Jonathan Ernst/Pool/Reuters)
Ortega Casanova, who lived in the U.S. for more than two decades, was one of four killed in the attempt. He is survived by his wife, mother, brother, two sisters, daughter and unborn grandchild.
Six other passengers, all Cubans living in the U.S., were injured. It is unclear if Hector was on board.
Ortega Casanova's brother, Misael, told The Associated Press Wednesday that his brother had an "obsessive and diabolical" pursuit for Cuba’s freedom.
"Only us Cubans who have lived over there understand [the great suffering]," Misael said.
He said "no one knew" about his brother's plans to infiltrate the island, noting their mother is "devastated."
"They became so obsessed that they didn’t think about the consequences nor their own lives," Misael said.
While Ortega Casanova's family did not recognize any of the other passengers, Misael said, "maybe [the attempt] will justify that some day Cuba will be free."
CUBA IS APPROACHING ITS BERLIN WALL MOMENT — AMERICA MUST HELP THEM BREAK THROUGH
Cuban Coast Guard forces reported an exchange of gunfire with a U.S.-registered speedboat Wednesday. (Yamil Lage/AFP via Getty Images)
He refrained from labeling the group heroes, describing the idea as "ignorance."
Cuban officials said many of the boat passengers, who were intercepted roughly a mile northeast of Cayo Falcones, off Cuba’s north coast, had a known history of criminal and violent activity.
Passengers Amijail Sánchez González and Leordan Enrique Cruz Gómez were wanted by Cuban authorities for their involvement in the "promotion, planning, organization, financing, support or commission of actions carried out in the national territory or in other countries, in connection with acts of terrorism ," according to the government.
Cuban politician Bruno Rodriguez Parrilla posted to X after the incident, claiming a "rigorous investigation" is being conducted to clarify the facts.
CUBA IDENTIFIES 32 MILITARY PERSONNEL KILLED IN US OPERATION AGAINST MADURO REGIME IN VENEZUELA
"Cuba has had to face numerous terrorist and aggressive infiltrations originating from #EEUU since 1959, at a high cost in lives, injuries, and material damage," Rodriguez Parrilla wrote in a post. "The defense of Cuba's coasts, of the national territory, and of national security is an ineludible duty."
Secretary of State Marco Rubio said the U.S. is working to determine whether the passengers were American citizens or permanent residents.
U.S. officials said at least two of the people on the bat were U.S. citizens, and another was on a U.S. K-1 visa — which is granted to fiancées of U.S. citizens for 90 days.
"We have various different elements of the U.S. government that are trying to identify elements of the story that may not be provided to us now," Rubio told reporters in Basseterre, St. Kitts.
"Suffice it to say, it is highly unusual to see shootouts in open sea like that. It’s not something that happens every day. It’s something, frankly, that hasn’t happened with Cuba in a very long time."
Cuban officials said the vessel's passengers were intercepted off the country's northern coast. (Nicolas Economou/NurPhoto)
RUSSIA WARNS AGAINST 'PROVOCATIVE ACTIONS' AROUND CUBA AFTER 4 KILLED ONBOARD US-REGISTERED SPEEDBOAT
Rubio said the U.S. will verify the facts independently, and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Coast Guard are investigating.
Vice President JD Vance said he was briefed on the incident, and the White House is monitoring the situation.
"Hopefully it’s not as bad as we fear it could be," Vance said.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Florida’s Attorney General James Uthmeier said prosecutors will work with federal, state and law enforcement partners to start an investigation.
"The Cuban government cannot be trusted, and we will do everything in our power to hold these communists accountable," Uthmeier wrote in a social media post.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation.
She has covered major national crises, including the L.A. wildfires, Potomac and Hudson River aviation disasters, Boulder terror attack, and Texas Hill Country floods.