article_id: fox_134
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/video-appears-show-gas-mask-wearing-roommate-allegedly-spraying-poison-couples-food
title: Video appears to show gas mask-wearing roommate allegedly spraying poison on couple's food
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
A couple in Santa Clarita, California, claims their roommate, 42-year-old Timothy Bradbury, poisoned them by spraying their food with bug spray. (KNN.NEWS)
A couple in California say their worst nightmare was confirmed after they captured their roommate on surveillance video spraying their food with poison.
Timothy Bradbury, 42, was arrested by the Santa Clarita Valley Sheriff’s Station Tuesday, Feb. 24, in the alleged poisoning, the department confirmed with Fox News Digital.
Billy Sonhopper and her husband, David, told ABC7 they saw security footage that captured their roommate, Bradbury, spraying their food and kitchen appliances .
"He was spraying stuff all over our groceries – our fruit, our vegetables, our coffee pot that we use every morning and our whole pantry full of our chips and cereal, all of our canned goods and spices. Everything. He sprayed it all over everything," Billy Sonhopper told the local outlet.
Surveillance video allegedly shows a roommate spraying poison on a couple’s food. Timothy Bradbury, 42, was arrested after an ER visit raised concerns about possible poisoning. (KNN.NEWS)
The video shows the suspect in a blue hoodie and gas mask spraying the kitchen with a blue bottle.
David Sonhopper said the couple’s suspicions were raised during a recent ER visit, when doctors told them blood work suggested possible poisoning.
That's what led the couple to check the cameras the landlord had installed in the home.
"On the video we found that, besides all the other things that he's done in the year that we've lived here, that he was spraying something. We weren't sure if it was rat poison, wasp spray," David Sonhopper said.
FOLLOW THE FOX TRUE CRIME TEAM ON X
Timothy Bradbury allegedly sprayed some kind of poison on his roommates' food, and the whole thing was caught on camera. (KNN.NEWS)
The couple said they have long struggled with their roommate, sharing that, in the past, he allegedly tried to set the house on fire and cut up the couple's clothing.
SIGN UP TO GET TRUE CRIME NEWSLETTER
The Sonhoppers shared that they had turned to police before but didn't have evidence until the surveillance video.
"It's been hell living with him the past year. It's been horrible," David Sonhopper said after Bradbury's arrest. "With her health issues, we were extremely concerned. And we're just tired. We've been living with so much stress."
"We don't want to be in fear anymore. We're tired of it. We just want to be safe," Billy Sonhopper said.
The suspect wore a gas mask and blue hoodie in the video. (KNN.NEWS)
On Feb. 24, police officers arrived at the home, but the suspect refused to exit. After deputies were informed by family members that Bradbury "suffers from a mental health disability ," they recruited the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department Mental Evaluation Team to help detain the suspect, the sheriff’s department explained.
After two hours, Bradbury voluntarily left the house.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Investigators then executed a search warrant and recovered physical evidence, police said.
Bradbury was arrested on charges of willful poisoning of food, drink, medicine or water with the intent to cause injury.
Sarah Rumpf-Whitten is a U.S. Writer at Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to sarah.rumpf@fox.com and on X @s_rumpfwhitten