article_id: fox_138
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/chicago-man-deported-from-bali-after-prison-release-murder-arrested-flight-back-us
title: Chicago man deported from Bali after prison release for murder arrested on flight back to US
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on FoxNews.com.
A Chicago man convicted in the 2014 suitcase killing of his girlfriend’s mother in Bali was arrested in international airspace on a flight to the U.S. to face federal murder conspiracy charges.
The Department of Justice said Tommy Schaefer, 32, of Chicago, faces a three-count indictment in the Northern District of Illinois charging him with conspiracy to kill in a foreign country, conspiracy to commit foreign murder of a U.S. national and obstruction.
Prosecutors say Schaefer conspired with girlfriend Heather Mack to murder her mother, Sheila von Wiese-Mack, during a 2014 trip to Bali, Indonesia.
Court filings say Mack arranged Schaefer’s travel to Bali as part of the plan. In the days before the attack, Schaefer exchanged messages with his cousin, Ryan Bibbs, about how to carry out the killing .
Tommy Schaefer of Chicago, who, along with his girlfriend Heather Mack, is accused of murdering Mack's mother Sheila von Wiese-Mack, whose body was later found in a suitcase in Bali, Indonesia. (Firdia Lisnawati, File/AP Photo)
Bibbs pleaded guilty in December 2016 to conspiracy to commit foreign murder of a U.S. national after admitting he advised Schaefer on the killing. Court records show Mack also asked Bibbs whether he knew someone who would murder her mother for money.
Authorities allege Schaefer and Mack discussed the timing and details of the killing before carrying it out Aug. 12, 2014, inside von Wiese-Mack’s hotel room. Afterward, investigators say, they concealed her body in a suitcase and placed it in the trunk of a taxi.
HEATHER MACK GETS 26 YEARS FOR CONSPIRACY TO KILL HER MOTHER AT LUXURY ISLAND RESORT AND DUMP BODY IN SUITCASE
In this April 21, 2015, photo, Heather Mack of Chicago is mobbed by reporters as she arrives in the courtroom for her sentencing hearing at a district court in Denpasar, Bali, Indonesia. (AP Photo/Firdia Lisnawati, File)
Prosecutors have said the motive was financial, alleging the couple sought access to a $1.5 million trust fund, according to The Associated Press. In August 2014, von Wiese-Mack’s body was discovered inside a suitcase in the trunk of a taxi parked at the St. Regis Bali Resort.
Mack was 19 and several weeks pregnant at the time of the killing, while Schaefer was 21, the AP reported. Prosecutors said Mack covered her mother’s mouth as Schaefer struck her with a fruit bowl. The pair were arrested the day after the body was discovered.
AMERICAN WOMAN ACCUSED OF KILLING MOTHER ON BALI VACATION, HIDING BODY IN SUITCASE PLEADS GUILTY
In this March 12, 2015, photo, Heather Mack and boyfriend Tommy Schaefer, of Chicago, who are accused of murdering Mack's mother Sheila von Wiese-Mack, whose body was later found in a suitcase, enter the courtroom prior to the start of their trial hearing at the district court in Denpasar, Bali, Indonesia. (Firdia Lisnawati, File/AP Photo)
The following year, both were convicted in Indonesia in the murder. Mack received a 10-year prison sentence. After her release and return to the United States, she pleaded guilty to conspiracy to kill a U.S. national and was sentenced in June 2023 to 26 years in federal prison.
Schaefer was sentenced in Indonesia to 18 years in prison. He was returned to the United States after completing his term, which Indonesian officials reduced through remissions and good behavior credits.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
If convicted on the federal charges, Schaefer faces up to life in prison on the first two counts and up to 20 years on the obstruction charge and fines of up to $250,000.
Fox News Digital’s Rachel Wolf and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Greg Wehner is a breaking news reporter for Fox News Digital.
Story tips and ideas can be sent to Greg.Wehner@Fox.com and on Twitter @GregWehner.