article_id: fox_17
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/dna-still-pending-volunteers-find-another-glove-search-nancy-guthrie
title: Sources reveal update on DNA recovered inside Nancy Guthrie's home
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Former NYPD Lt. Darrin Porcher discusses the search for Nancy Guthrie in Tucson, Arizona, and the potential reduction of resources in the case on ‘Fox & Friends.’
TUCSON, Ariz. — DNA leads appear to be cooling in the Nancy Guthrie disappearance investigation.
The DNA samples recovered from inside Nancy Guthrie’s home mainly came back to people who had a reason to be there, two federal law enforcement sources tell Fox News Digital. One unknown sample yielded only a partial profile that could not be checked against the FBI’s CODIS database.
Pima County Sheriff Chris Nanos previously said DNA recovered from the scene had not yet led police to a suspect in the kidnapping of the mother of "Today" co-host Savannah Guthrie .
In a previous interview with her network, NBC, he said a mixed sample could take weeks, months or up to a year to unravel at the Florida lab where he sent the evidence.
Nancy Guthrie disappeared from her Tucson home in the early morning hours of Feb. 1, with investigators treating the case as an apparent abduction. (Fox Flight Team; Courtesy of NBC)
Other DNA has already been processed. Blood on the front porch traced back to Guthrie. The lab also tested a suspicious glove recovered about two miles from her home, which authorities said appeared similar to those worn by a masked suspect on Guthrie’s Nest doorbell camera.
Photos released on Feb. 10, 2025, show a "subject" on Nancy Guthrie's property. (Provided by FBI)
The glove provided no answers — it did not match any known criminals in the FBI’s CODIS database and did not match any other samples recovered inside the home.
Sources told Fox News Digital over the weekend that the mixed DNA inside Guthrie’s home has so far provided only a partial profile, which was insufficient to check against CODIS.
However, genealogy experts tell Fox News Digital that investigative genetic genealogy , another tool in the DNA toolbox, relies on different genetic information and may still be viable from the same piece of evidence.
NANCY GUTHRIE DISAPPEARANCE FUELS RISE OF ‘MOM DETECTIVES’ SWAPPING TIPS AND LOSING SLEEP
Savannah Guthrie and her mother, Nancy Guthrie. (Instagram/Savannah Guthrie)
CODIS relies on short tandem repeat (STR) testing, which compares 20 genetic markers against the federal database to seek a direct match. IGG, also known as FGG or forensic genetic genealogy, tests for hundreds of thousands of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP or "snip") markers, a completely different aspect of DNA to find ancestral ties.
"It is possible to deconvolute a mixed sample and get a profile, but it's really hard to get a profile into CODIS," said CeCe Moore, the chief genetic genealogist at Parabon Nanolabs and a leading expert in the field. "It has to be practically perfect."
If the sample doesn’t have a complete STR profile, there may be no CODIS hit. As a result, SNP sequencing is more effective on degraded or incomplete samples.
RETIRED FBI AGENT URGES RAPID DNA TESTING IN GUTHRIE CASE: 'YOU DON’T WAIT FOR FEDEX ON MONDAY MORNING'
"You could absolutely use that same sample to create a snip profile," Moore told Fox News Digital.
And while SNP profiles have only recently been accepted in court, partial STR profiles can be used to get an arrest warrant, even when they are not eligible for CODIS, she said.
"If you're comparing 13 markers, or just 10 markers, you can still compare them," she said.
NANCY GUTHRIE CASE: RING'S 'NEIGHBORS' APP BECOMES TOOL IN SEARCH FOR MISSING 84-YEAR-OLD, EXPERT SAYS
A woman moves discarded clothing found in a drainage tunnel during a volunteer search in the Nancy Guthrie case on Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. A group of about 12 to 15 people split up and searched along the roadways flanking Guthrie's neighborhood. (Michael Ruiz/Fox News Digital)
With few official updates, volunteers have stepped out to take the search into their own hands. Among the items they found were a black glove, possibly similar to others found in the case, and a backpack that did not match the description of what authorities say a suspect was wearing.
A little over a dozen volunteers met over the weekend, broke up into groups of two to four and split up into different parts of the neighborhood. Organizers declined to let Fox News Digital see the map they’d marked up.
People conduct an unofficial search for clues in the Nancy Guthrie case, in Tucson, Arizona, Sunday, February 22, 2026. Guthrie was last seen alive at the end of January. (Kat Ramirez for Fox News Digital)
"I just feel like if it was my mom or anybody in my family that was missing, I'd want somebody to come out and search and try to help find her and bring her home," said Christi Wiggins, a volunteer who drove in from Phoenix Sunday morning to help out.
INTERNET USER SEARCHED FOR NANCY GUTHRIE'S ADDRESS AND DAUGHTER'S SALARY BEFORE 'TODAY' HOST'S MOTHER VANISHED
Volunteer searchers located this black glove at the intersection of First Avenue and East Camino Alberca in Tucson, about 2.3 miles from Nancy Guthrie's home on Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. A woman who lives across the street said she'd already turned over her Ring camera video to police. (Michael Ruiz/Fox News Digital)
The volunteers were looking for clues tied to a masked suspect, who may or may not have acted alone. Earlier in the investigation, the FBI released doorbell camera video showing a masked man on her front porch.  Notably, according to the bureau, he was wearing a black Ozark Trail-branded hiking backpack.
"I'm nervous, I'm kind of scared, I am unsure, but I'm also, I have a lot of energy to get out there and hopefully, you know, help locate anything to help find her," said Katherine Montanez, another searcher.
FOLLOW THE FOX TRUE CRIME TEAM ON X
A woman holds up a SwissGear brand backpack discovered during a volunteer search in the Nancy Guthrie case on Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. Authorities said later that it did not provide any viable leads. (Michael Ruiz/Fox News Digital)
Volunteers found a SwissGear brand backpack Sunday, about 2.8 miles from Guthrie’s home, which a Pima County Sheriff’s Department spokesperson said appeared unconnected to the case.
The glove was closer to Guthrie's address, around 2.3 miles away at the intersection of First Avenue and East Camino Alberca. But the spokesperson said search crews had not reported it as of early Sunday evening.
SIGN UP TO GET TRUE CRIME NEWSLETTER
People conduct an unofficial search for clues in the Nancy Guthrie case, on Sunday, February 22, 2026. Guthrie was last seen alive at the end of January. (Kat Ramirez for Fox News Digital)
Organizers did not respond to an email about the search Monday morning.
The glove turned up near the home where a search warrant had been served on Feb. 13 in connection with the case. That warrant did not result in any charges, however.
A woman living across the street told reporters that police had already canvassed her neighborhood for Ring camera video. She said she turned over what she had but did not believe it showed anything significant.
Sheriff Nanos said over the weekend that investigators were working to confirm the other items the suspect was seen wearing.
Deputies examined a flyer taped to Nancy Guthrie's mailbox on Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. They were called to the scene after volunteer searchers and several streamers walked onto Guthrie's property with a shovel. (Michael Ruiz/Fox News Digital)
LIKE WHAT YOU'RE READING? FIND MORE ON THE TRUE CRIME HUB
Back at Guthrie’s home, a pair of women from a group called Madres Sonoras Desaparecida, or Sonoran Mothers of the Missing, went onto the property briefly with a shovel and a length of rebar.
Several streamers taking video with their phones followed them onto the grounds before a deputy asked them all to leave.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Anyone with information is asked to dial 1-800-CALL-FBI.
Fox News' Olivianna Calmes and Fox News Digital's Julia Bonavita contributed to this report.