article_id: fox_19
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/illegal-immigrant-arrested-after-showing-up-florida-border-patrol-office-contract-work
title: Illegal immigrant arrested after showing up to Florida Border Patrol office for contract IT work
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Border Patrol chief Gregory Bovino joins ‘America Reports’ to discuss a federal judge’s order to release hundreds of migrants detained in Illinois during Operation Midway Blitz.
FIRST ON FOX: An illegal immigrant who reported to a U.S. Border Patrol site in Florida to perform some Information technology contractual work was arrested when authorities were made aware of his citizenship status, officials said.
Angel Camacho, a Venezuelan citizen, reported to a USBP center in Dania Beach, Florida, Jan. 6 to do some IT work when U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officials began vetting him, the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) told Fox News Digital.
During its investigation, it was revealed Camacho was in violation of U.S. immigration laws, authorities said.
Angel Camacho reported to a Florida U.S. Border Patrol center to perform contractual work when he was arrested, a Department of Homeland Security official said. (Getty Images )
"CBP vets all external visitors before allowing them to enter secure facilities to ensure safety and operational integrity," DHS Deputy Assistant Secretary Lauren Bis said in a statement.
"During the vetting process, CBP uncovered this individual was a tourist visa overstay in the country for over five years."
SCHUMER, DEMS AGAIN BLOCK DHS FUNDING, FORCE STATE OF THE UNION SHOWDOWN
This photo shows a U.S. Border Patrol patch on a border agent's uniform in McAllen, Texas, Jan. 15, 2019. (Suzanne CordeiroAFP via Getty Images)
Camacho was arrested and transferred to ICE custody, Bis said.
His criminal history includes theft and resisting a Florida Highway Patrol officer, officials said. Federal authorities have nabbed several illegal immigrants in the process of trying to obtain employment in law enforcement and education.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
One Sierra Leone citizen was recently arrested as he was training to become a Pennsylvania corrections officer.
Another illegal immigrant, Ian Roberts, served as the former superintendent of Iowa's largest district, Des Moines Public Schools, before he was arrested by ICE.
Louis Casiano is a reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to louis.casiano@fox.com .