article_id: fox_225
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/nancy-guthrie-once-played-along-staged-childhood-kidnapping-tradition-daughters-book-says
title: Nancy Guthrie once played along in staged childhood 'kidnapping' tradition, daughter's book says
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News national correspondent Bryan Llenas reports on the latest developments in the search for Nancy Guthrie on ‘The Faulkner Focus.’
In one of her books, Savannah Guthrie recalled how her cousin annually staged a childhood "kidnapping" game, with her mother, Nancy Guthrie, playing along.
In her book, "Mostly What God Does," which was released in February 2024, Savannah Guthrie described the tradition where her cousin would stage a "kidnapping" of herself and her sister at their home in Tucson, Arizona . When she was a child, Savannah Guthrie's cousin would take her and her sister to Phoenix, calling their mother along the way.
"About once a year, in the summertime, Cousin Teri orchestrated a ‘kidnapping’ of my sister and me. It went down like this: The cousins would visit for a few days at our house in Tucson, and then, on the morning they were to leave, Teri would wake us up early, shushing us in the predawn darkness as we made our escape," Savannah Guthrie wrote in her book. "We would all pile into her rickety station wagon and head north, the sky streaking with bright oranges and pinks as the sun rose over the colorless desert landscape."
"Somewhere between Phoenix and Tucson, Teri would make a pit stop and let Annie and me call home at a pay phone. ‘Mom! Cousin Teri kidnapped us to take us to her house!’ My mother would feign shock, protest how terribly she would miss us, then assure us she’d drive up to retrieve us in a few days," she added.
An undated photo of Nancy Guthrie and Savannah Guthrie provided by NBC in response to the disappearance of the 84-year-old mother of the "Today" show host. (Courtesy of NBC)
There is no indication that the passage has any connection to the ongoing investigation into Nancy Guthrie's disappearance. Nancy Guthrie's family members and their spouses have been cleared as suspects in the investigation into her disappearance, according to Pima County Sheriff Chris Nanos.
Investigators continue to search for Nancy Guthrie as she has been missing for over two weeks. Guthrie was forcibly taken from her Tucson, Arizona, home in the early morning hours of Feb. 1, Pima County Sheriff Chris Nanos previously said.
Nanos told Fox News on Tuesday that DNA recovered from Nancy Guthrie's home , as well as a glove that was found near her house, wasn't a match for records found in the FBI database known as the Combined DNA Index System (CODIS).
NANCY GUTHRIE CASE: FBI PREPARES FOR 'PARALLEL REALITIES' WHILE AWAITING DNA RESULTS
A growing vigil in the morning light under cloudy skies is seen at Nancy Guthrie’s home on Feb. 13, 2026, in Tucson, Arizona. (Ty ONeil/AP Photo)
An FBI official told Fox News Digital that investigative genetic genealogy is underway as investigators try to identify a suspect. Investigative genetic genealogy, known as IGG, is a technique used by the FBI that "combines DNA analysis from crime scenes with searching publicly available commercial genealogy databases and old-fashioned genealogy research," retired FBI special agent Jason Pack told Fox News Digital.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
A member of the Pima County sheriff's office remains outside of Nancy Guthrie's home, Feb. 9, 2026 in Tucson. (Ty ONeil/AP Photo)
The New York Times reported on Wednesday that the FBI contacted Mexican authorities to investigate a "purchase" that was allegedly related to the Nancy Guthrie case. The official said the "purchase" has "already been ruled out" by the FBI.
Investigators told both ABC News and NBC News that they don't believe Nancy Guthrie was taken across the U.S. and Mexico border after she was abducted from her Tucson home .
Adam Sabes is a reporter for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to Adam.Sabes@fox.com and on Twitter @asabes10.