article_id: fox_229
url: https://www.foxnews.com/food-drink/boneless-wings-still-wings-judge-rules-chefs-take-bite-battle
title: Boneless wings are still wings, judge rules, and chefs take a bite of the battle
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
A Southern comfort classic has landed in Costco's prepared foods section. Pennsylvania-based Costco creator Jacquelyne Devine says the dish is a great value.
A federal judge has seemingly ended a debate that's been going on for years: Are " boneless wings " still considered chicken wings?
In a Feb. 17 decision, U.S. District Judge John Tharp Jr. dismissed a lawsuit against Buffalo Wild Wings (BWW) for the chain's use of the term "boneless wings."
The suit was brought by a customer who argued the name was misleading, claiming he expected an actual chicken wing without the bone.
FEDERAL JUDGE RULES ON WHETHER BUFFALO WILD WINGS CAN KEEP 'BONELESS WINGS' ON MENU
The customer, Aimen Halim, said that BWW's product was more like a chicken nugget, a complaint Tharp said had "no meat on its bones."
Tharp pointed to a recent Ohio Supreme Court decision that said no reasonable diner thinks "chicken fingers" are made from fingers.
A customer recently sued Buffalo Wild Wings, arguing that "boneless wings" were misleading and more like chicken nuggets. (iStock)
Does this lawsuit put the debate to bed, or is there still a bone to pick? Fox News Digital talked with chefs to find out.
Carlo Filippone, founder of the meal prep brand The Chicken Pound, said he sees both sides of the argument.
TEST YOURSELF WITH OUR LATEST LIFESTYLE QUIZ "A consumer unfamiliar with the brand may not understand the branding. … BWW's boneless wings, however, are a menu item," said Filippone, based in New Jersey.
"In the scheme of things, the consumers were not sold pork as chicken wings. They were sold a version of 'wings.'"
Chefs said the meaning of "wings" has evolved in modern restaurant culture. (iStock)
In terms of his personal opinion, Filippone said he sees a boneless wing as closer to a nugget due to his experience in food production.
"But if I were simply a consumer … my mind would process that as an actual chicken wing," he added.
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
Darin Leonardson, a chef and the CEO of consulting company Transformed Culinary Solutions based in Texas, told Fox News Digital he believes boneless wings do "qualify as wings in today’s food culture."
One chef said boneless wings are closer to nuggets in food production, though consumers may see them differently. (iStock)
"While the classic Buffalo wing has deep roots in tradition, the boneless version has created accessibility for a much wider audience," he said.
He added that preferring boneless wings isn't always about pickiness. In senior living scenarios , for example, residents might struggle with eating bones but would "still want the flavor and experience.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE LIFESTYLE STORIES
"It allows more people to participate in something that feels fun and familiar."
While he remains a fan of bone-in wings, Leonardson said he appreciates the creativity that other chefs have brought to the concept, even cauliflower wings .
The court found that diners do not expect menu names like "chicken fingers" or "boneless wings" to be literal. (iStock)
"The idea has evolved in a way that includes more people at the table," he said.
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Leonardson added, "At the end of the day, great food should balance tradition, flavor, health and accessibility, and boneless wings absolutely have a place in that conversation."
Ashley Carnahan of Fox News Digital contributed reporting.
Andrea Margolis is a lifestyle writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business. Readers can follow her on X at @andreamargs or send story tips to andrea.margolis@fox.com .