article_id: fox_230
url: https://www.foxnews.com/sports/eileen-gu-physically-assaulted-over-representing-china-instead-us-olympics
title: Eileen Gu says she's been 'physically assaulted' over representing China instead of US at Olympics
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on FoxNews.com.
Eileen Gu has sparked controversy over her decision to represent China instead of the United States.
Born in San Francisco, Gu made the decision in 2019 to compete for China and defended her choice ahead of this year's Olympic Games. Gu's mother was born in China and earned her master's degree there.
The decision has garnered backlash online and on camera from numerous figures. However, Gu recently claimed that some have taken it too far, including being "physically assaulted on the street."
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
Silver medalist Eileen Gu of China poses for photos after the awarding ceremony of the freestyle skiing women's freeski big air event at the Milan Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games in Livigno, Italy, Feb. 16, 2026. (Wang Peng/Xinhua via Getty Images)
"The police were called. I’ve had death threats. I’ve had my dorm robbed," Gu told The Athletic . "I’ve gone through some things as a 22-year-old that I really think no one should ever have to endure, ever."
Vice President JD Vance said on Fox News Channel on Wednesday that he "would hope" that someone who was born in the U.S. would want to represent the U.S.
Eileen Gu (CHN) celebrates the gold medal after competing in the Freestyle Skiing Women's Halfpipe Final during the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games at Genting Snow Park. (Danielle Parhizkaran/USA TODAY Sports)
"I certainly think that someone who grew up in the United States of America who benefited from our education system, from the freedoms and liberties that makes this country a great place, I would hope they want to compete with the United States of America," Vance said on "The Story With Martha MacCallum."
"So, I'm going to root for American athletes , I think part of that is people who identify themselves as Americans. That's who I'm rooting for in this Olympics."
Former NBA player Enes Kanter Freedom took it a step further, calling Gu a "traitor." Kanter has been outspoken against China, its alleged human rights abuses and the NBA for its ties to the country.
"She was born in America. She was raised in America, lives in America, and chooses to compete against her own country for, literally, the worst human rights abuser on the planet, China. She built her fame in a free country, and then chooses to represent an authoritarian regime," Freedom said.
"She chose to play for a country that is literally responsible for the deaths of tens of millions of its own people, and literally running a concentration camp while we're talking," Freedom said, comparing Gu's silence on the issue to LeBron James ' declining a question about China's alleged human rights abuses in 2019.
Silver medalist Eileen Gu of China attends the awarding ceremony of the freestyle skiing women's freeski big air event at the Milan Cortina 2026 Olympic Winter Games in Livigno, Italy, Feb. 16, 2026. (Hongxiang/Xinhua via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Gu is the most decorated female Olympic freestyle skier of all time but has come up just short in Milan, settling for two silver medals. She won two golds in Beijing.
Fox News' Jackson Thompson contributed to this report.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X , and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter