article_id: fox_240
url: https://www.foxnews.com/sports/weve-lost-dale-earnhardt-fox-nascar-documentary
title: FOX Presents 'We've Lost Dale Earnhardt: 25 Years Later' Documentary On Thursday
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
You know the one. The Intimidator. The seven-time NASCAR Cup Series champion, whose No. 3 car, now driven by Austin Dillon , is a living reminder of his legacy.
But tonight, you can relive his greatness when FOX Sports and NASCAR Studios air the documentary "We've Lost Dale Earnhardt: 25 Years Later" on Thursday at 10 p.m. ET on FS1 after the Duels at Daytona to determine the starting lineup for Sunday's 2026 Daytona 500 .
The film tells the story of Earnhardt's tragic death after crashing on the final lap of the 2001 Daytona 500, ahead of the 68th edition of the race on Sunday. He altered NASCAR forever, impacting the sport from a safety standpoint and setting new bars on the track each time he competed.
"When you look at the impact that Dale had on really everything he touched, and every aspect of the sport, the fans are still a part of that, that legacy he left," FOX Sports' Kevin Harvick said. "Dale Jr. obviously carried that on. And that [No.] 3, it just carries a lot of tradition."
"Earnhardt knew how to grow the sport," FOX Sports motorsports insider Bob Pockrass said .
He never shied from the camera. He pushed his individual merchandise, which still ranks in the top 10 of sales. Earnhardt is tied for first in NASCAR history with Richard Petty and Jimmie Johnson with seven Cup Series championships and stands eighth with 76 career wins. His son, Dale Earnhardt Jr., is a two-time Daytona 500 winner who competed in 18 full-time seasons on the NASCAR circuit from 2000-17, finishing with 26 career wins.
[KEVIN HARVICK: NASCAR Still Misses Dale Earnhardt Sr. ]
Apart from Earnhardt's legacy, the film will provide an inside look at the saddest moment in NASCAR history.
The documentary will feature rare footage and first-hand accounts of the accident from former NASCAR president Mike Helton — who announced to the world that " we've lost Dale Earnhardt " — and drivers who competed in the race such as Rusty Wallace and Kurt Busch. It will also include perspective from active NASCAR drivers such as Kyle Busch , Joey Logano and Ryan Blaney , among other individuals across the Cup Series landscape.