article_id: fox_250
url: https://www.foxnews.com/sports/tiger-woods-17-year-old-son-charlie-announces-major-golf-move-go-noles
title: Tiger Woods' 17-year-old son Charlie announces major golf move: 'Go Noles!'
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News Flash top sports headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on FoxNews.com.
The Woods family is adding to its remarkable golf legacy.
Charlie Woods, the son of 15-time major winner Tiger Woods, announced on Instagram he had committed to play college golf at Florida State .
"Go Noles!" the high schooler posted .
CLICK HERE FOR MORE SPORTS COVERAGE ON FOXNEWS.COM
Tiger Woods and son Charlie Woods react on the 16th green during the second round of the PNC Championship at Ritz-Carlton Golf Club Dec. 22, 2024, in Orlando, Fla. (Douglas P. DeFelice/Getty Images)
Woods won the Team TaylorMade Invitational in May and drilled a hole-in-one on the third hole at TPC Sawgrass in August.
The father-son duo played alongside one another at the PNC Championship from 2020 to 2024, and the younger Woods recorded his first ace in 2024. The pair finished in second in both 2021 and 2024.
Woods, who turned 17 Monday, is the 21st-ranked golfer in the American Junior Golf Association. He finished tied for ninth at the Junior PGA Championship in August.
Tiger Woods and son Charlie Woods look on from the second hole during a practice round prior to the U.S. Open at Pinehurst Resort June 11, 2024, in Pinehurst, N.C. (Andrew Redington/Getty Images)
In the summer of 2024, he qualified to compete at the U.S. Junior Amateur but failed to make the cut .
His dad has 82 professional wins, tied with Sam Snead for the most ever. Fifteen of those victories have come in majors, and his last major win was an unforgettable 2019 Masters.
Tiger underwent another back surgery in December after he ruptured his Achilles just weeks before last year's Masters. In 18 official events since finishing tied for ninth at the 2020 Farmers Insurance Open, his best finish is a tie for 37th at the 2020 PGA Championship.
He has not competed since the 2024 Open Championship. He competed in just five events that year — each of the four majors and the Genesis Invitational, which he hosts. He withdrew from the Genesis, finished dead last in the Masters and missed the cut in the final three majors.
Tiger Woods, left, and son Charlie Woods fist-bump after making their putt on the 13th green during the final round of the PNC Championship Dec. 22, 2024, in Orlando, Fla. (AP Photo/Phelan M. Ebenhack)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Five-time major winner Brooks Koepka and Paul Azinger, the 1993 PGA Champion, both attended Florida State.
Follow Fox News Digital’s sports coverage on X , and subscribe to the Fox News Sports Huddle newsletter .