article_id: fox_258
url: https://www.foxnews.com/politics/sen-adam-schiff-says-hell-skip-state-union-first-time-slamming-president-donald-trump
title: Sen Adam Schiff says he'll skip the State of the Union for the first time, slamming President Donald Trump
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Democratic Sen. Adam Schiff of California said that he's skipping President Donald Trump's State of the Union Address, accusing the president of running afoul of the law and the Constitution.
President Donald Trump is slated to deliver the State of the Union address on Tuesday night, but Democratic Sen. Adam Schiff of California said he will skip the speech for the first time.
In a video posted on Saturday, Schiff accused the president of running afoul of the "law and Constitution."
"He is ignoring court orders. He has weaponized the Justice Department to go after his enemies. He is letting loose ICE troops in our streets that are getting people killed," Schiff said .
Sen. Adam Schiff appears on "Meet the Press" in Washington D.C., Oct. 5, 2025. (Shannon Finney/NBC via Getty Images)
"I've never missed one. I have always gone both to inaugurations and to States of the Union. But we cannot treat this as normal. This is not business as usual. I will not give him the audience he craves for the lies that he tells," Schiff said.
In a statement provided to Fox News Digital, White House spokeswoman Abigail Jackson said, "Every Democrat in Congress tried to pass a $4 trillion dollar tax hike and voted against the working and middle class tax cuts the American people are seeing right now in their refunds. Democrats all voted against securing the border and deporting criminal illegals. Democrats all voted against modernizing our military. The list goes on. It’s not a surprise that they refuse to celebrate and honor the Americans who have benefitted from the commonsense policies Republicans have governed with."
BILL MAHER CALLS FOR COMPLETE END TO STATE OF THE UNION ADDRESS AHEAD OF TRUMP SPEECH
President Donald Trump speaks during a press conference at the White House on Feb. 20, 2026. (Kyle Mazza/Anadolu via Getty Images)
The senator indicated he will instead participate in the People's State of the Union event being held by MeidasTouch and MoveOn.
Multiple Democratic lawmakers are planning to skip the president's address and attend the left-wing event instead.
ADAM SCHIFF MAKES ENDORSEMENT IN CALIFORNIA GUBERNATORIAL RACE
Sen. Adam Schiff listens during a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing in Washington, D.C., on Feb. 3, 2026. (Graeme Sloan/Bloomberg via Getty Images)
CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP
Schiff joined in the Senate in late 2024, after serving in the House of Representatives since 2001.
Alex Nitzberg is a writer for Fox News Digital.