article_id: fox_33
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/family-ohio-teacher-clinging-faith-after-ex-american-idol-contestant-husband-charged-her-murder
title: Family of Ohio teacher ‘clinging to faith’ after ex-'American Idol' contestant husband charged with her murder
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Former ‘American Idol’ contestant Caleb Flynn, 49, was arraigned for his wife's alleged murder in Ohio County, Ohio, Friday, Feb. 20. (Dayton Daily News)
The family of an Ohio teacher who was brutally shot to death at home during what was initially reported as an overnight burglary is breaking its silence after her former "American Idol" contestant husband was charged with her murder.
Ashley Flynn, a mother of two, a teacher and volleyball coach, was shot and killed in her Tipp City , Ohio, home early Monday morning. Her husband, Caleb Flynn, 39, has since been charged with her murder.
The family of Ashley Flynn said in a statement obtained by Fox News Saturday that "our hearts are shattered."
"Ashley brought endless light to our world, and we are trying to navigate this immense loss," the family said.
Ashley Flynn, a Tipp City Schools substitute teacher and volleyball coach, was found dead in her Ohio home during a reported burglary. Police launched a homicide investigation into her death. (Tipp City Schools)
Caleb Flynn was charged with murder , two counts of felonious assault with a deadly weapon and two counts of tampering with evidence. He was arraigned Friday morning and pleaded not guilty. His bond was set at $2 million.
Caleb Flynn in a booking photo from Miami County Jail in Dayton, Ohio, Thursday, Feb. 19, 2026. (Miami County Jail)
"Our family believes this arrest was made carefully and not without serious consideration," Ashley Flynn’s family said in the statement. "After speaking with both local police and federal authorities, we trust the proper steps were taken, and the process is being handled appropriately."
Ashley Flynn with her husband, Caleb Flynn, in an undated photo. (Ashley Flynn/Facebook)
Caleb Flynn allegedly shot his wife with a 9 mm handgun and staged a crime scene, causing officers to be led astray, officials alleged in court documents filed Friday.
FBI JOINS PROBE IN MURDER OF CHRISTIAN TEACHER SHOT IN OHIO HOME AS 'AMERICAN IDOL' HUSBAND, CHILDREN SLEPT
According to audio obtained by Fox News Digital , Caleb Flynn told a 911 dispatcher that someone broke into his house and shot his wife twice in the head.
Ashley and Caleb Flynn in an undated photo with their two children. (GoFundMe)
Caleb Flynn was a contestant on " American Idol " and talked about his love for his wife during an interview to be on the show in 2013 during a Hometown Interview segment.
The family of Ashley Flynn asked for privacy as it works through "this complex situation" and asked anyone with information that could help the investigation to contact the Tipp City Police Department.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
"We are clinging to our faith — just as Ashley did each and every day," the statement said.
After her killing, the Christian Life Center in Butler Township described Flynn as a beloved member of the church .
Fox News' Jennifer Griffin and Fox News Digital’s Adam Sabes and Sarah Rumpf-Whitten contributed to this report.