article_id: fox_35
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/man-crashed-nevada-substation-found-dead-car-arsenal-suspected-terror-incident-sheriff
title: Man who crashed into Nevada substation found dead in car with arsenal in suspected terror incident: sheriff
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The FBI and other agencies are investigating an apparent attack Thursday in Boulder City, Nevada, Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department Sheriff Kevin McMahill, said during a news conference Friday. (KVVU)
This story discusses suicide. If you or someone you know is having thoughts of suicide, please contact the Suicide & Crisis Lifeline at 988 or 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
A heavily armed 23-year-old man who told his family he wanted to commit an act that would put him "on the news," allegedly drove across the country and crashed a car into a Nevada power facility Thursday — an incident authorities are calling a potential act of terrorism.
Dawson Maloney, 23, of Albany, New York , was found dead from a self-inflicted gunshot wound wearing soft body armor and holding a shotgun, Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department Sheriff Kevin McMahill said during a news conference Friday.
Officials said Maloney, who was recently reported missing out of New York, intentionally crashed a rental car through a secure gate protecting a Los Angeles Department of Water and Power facility near Boulder City at about 10 a.m. local time Thursday.
The power facility, owned by the city of Los Angeles, works closely with Hoover Dam, officials said. Power generated at the plant is transferred to the Hoover Dam basin.
Dawson Maloney was the 23-year-old identified who crashed into a power station near Las Vegas. (KVVU)
Video showed the car, which had New York license plates, speeding toward the gate, breaking the perimeter fence.
Maloney's car was stopped by large, industrial wire reels, seemingly leading to his subsequent suicide, according to McMahill. He added that there is no ongoing threat to the public.
Officials said he spoke to his family prior to the attack and made multiple references to self harm and committing an act that would place him "on the news."
In a message to his mother, Maloney referred to himself as a "dead terrorist son" and said he felt he "had an obligation to carry out his act," according to McMahill.
The FBI is investigating an apparent attack Thursday in Boulder City, Nev. (KVVU)
MARYLAND MAN ACCUSED OF TARGETING TRUMP CABINET OFFICIAL RUSSELL VOUGHT IN MURDER PLOT
Two shotguns, an AR-style pistol, numerous loaded AR magazines, a box of shotgun shells, two flamethrowers containing thermite material, a crowbar and a hatchet were found inside the car, leading the incident to be treated as a "terrorism-related event," according to McMahill.
Multiple weapons were found inside the rental car, according to officials. (KVVU)
Multiple books were found in Maloney's hotel room related to extremist ideologies , including right- and left-wing extremism, environmental extremism, white supremacy and anti-government ideology.
Authorities also recovered explosive materials and components to include thermite, ammonium nitrate, magnesium ribbon, metal pipes and gasoline.
The FBI is investigating an apparent attack on a power station on Thursday in Boulder City, Nev. (KVVU)
FBI PITTSBURGH RAMMING SUSPECT QUOTED LINCOLN ASSASSIN DURING CONFESSION, SPECIAL AGENT SAYS
A cellphone found in the car is being forensically analyzed, according to McMahill.
FBI Las Vegas and FBI Albany are assisting with the investigation and carried out two search warrants in New York.
Electronics were pulled from one Albany home, and "several gun components" needed to assemble a gun, along with a 3D printer, were recovered from another house in Albany.
Based on the information uncovered, FBI agents believe Maloney rented a car on Feb. 12 in Albany and left the area two days later.
The FBI is investigating an apparent attack Thursday in Boulder City, Nevada. (KVVU)
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Boulder City Police Chief Tim Shea said there is no major damage to critical infrastructure at the power plant and there are no known service interruptions.
"We also recognize the gravity of an armed individual intentionally reaching the power facility while in possession of incendiary components. Our responsibility is to identify threats early, act decisively and protect critical infrastructure," Shea said. "There is no continuing threat to the community."
Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation.
She has covered major national crises, including the L.A. wildfires, Potomac and Hudson River aviation disasters, Boulder terror attack, and Texas Hill Country floods.