article_id: fox_53
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/ag-pam-bondi-announces-all-epstein-files-released-listing-high-profile-names
title: AG Pam Bondi announces 'all' Epstein files have been released, listing over 300 high-profile names
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News correspondent David Spunt breaks down what is being learned from the latest Epstein files release from the Department of Justice on 'Special Report.'
FIRST ON FOX – Attorney General Pam Bondi announced in a letter on Saturday that "all" Epstein files have been released consistent with Section 3 of the Epstein Files Transparency Act.
The letter addressed to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley , R-Iowa, ranking member Dick Durbin, D-Ill., House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, and ranking member Jamie Raskin, D-Md., was obtained by Fox News Digital.
"In accordance with the requirements of the Act, and as described in various Department submissions to the courts of the Southern District of New York assigned to the Epstein and Maxwell prosecutions and related orders, the Department released all ‘records, documents, communications and investigative materials in the possession of the Department’ that ‘relate to’ any of nine different categories," the letter read.
Attorney General Pam Bondi announced the complete release of all Epstein files on Saturday. (Roberto Schmidt/AFP via Getty Images)
The letter includes a list of more than 300 high-profile names, including President Donald Trump, Barack and Michelle Obama, Prince Harry, Bill Gates, Woody Allen, Kurt Cobain, Mark Zuckerberg and Bruce Springsteen.
In accordance with the Epstein Files Transparency Act, the list of names includes "all persons where (1) they are or were a government official or politically exposed person and (2) their name appears in the files released under the Act at least once," the letter said, adding that the names appear in a "wide variety of contexts."
Some of the names mentioned had "extensive direct email contact with Epstein or Maxwell" while others were mentioned "in a portion of a document (including press reporting) that on its face is unrelated to the Epstein and Maxwell matters," the letter said.
PRINCE WILLIAM’S ENVIRONMENTAL CHARITY REPORTED OVER PARTNER’S EPSTEIN TIES
The document outlines the broad range of Epstein-related materials the Justice Department says are encompassed, including records concerning Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell; references to individuals—up to and including government officials—connected to Epstein’s activities; and documents tied to civil settlements and legal resolutions such as immunity deals, plea agreements, non-prosecution agreements and sealed arrangements.
The letter adds, "No records were withheld or redacted 'on the basis of embarrassment, reputational harm, or political sensitivity, including to any government official, public figure, or foreign dignitary.'" (Patrick McMullan via Getty Images)
It also includes information on organizations and networks allegedly linked to Epstein’s trafficking and financial operations across corporate, nonprofit, academic and governmental spheres, as well as internal DOJ emails, memos and meeting notes reflecting decisions about whether to charge, decline or pursue investigations.
The documents also cover records addressing potential destruction or concealment of relevant material and documentation surrounding Epstein’s detention and death, including incident reports, witness interviews and medical examiner/autopsy-related records.
EXCLUSIVE: EPSTEIN EMAILS RELEASED AS DOJ SAYS NO CRIMINAL OR INAPPROPRIATE CONDUCT BY TRUMP
The letter adds, "No records were withheld or redacted 'on the basis of embarrassment, reputational harm, or political sensitivity, including to any government official, public figure, or foreign dignitary.'"
"Any omissions from the list are unintentional and, as explained in the previous letters to Congress, a result of the volume and speed with which the Department complied with the Act ," the letter states. "Individuals whose names were redacted for law-enforcement sensitive purposes are not included."
The letter states that "individuals whose names were redacted for law-enforcement sensitive purposes are not included" in the files. (Joe Schildhorn/Patrick McMullan via Getty Images)
The letter says the redaction process was "extensive," including consultation with victims and victim counsel, to redact "segregable portions" that contain information identifiable to victims, such as medical files that could jeopardize an active federal investigation or ongoing prosecution, or depict/contain images of death, physical abuse or injury.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Ashley J. DiMella is a lifestyle reporter with Fox News Digital.