article_id: fox_56
url: https://www.foxnews.com/world/iran-nears-china-anti-ship-supersonic-missile-deal-as-us-carriers-mass-in-region-report
title: Iran nears China anti-ship supersonic missile deal as US carriers mass in region: report
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt says President Donald Trumps "first option is always diplomacy" for Iran.
Iran is nearing a deal with China to acquire supersonic anti-ship cruise missiles, a move that could significantly raise the stakes in the Middle East as U.S. carrier strike groups assemble within striking distance of the Islamic Republic .
Reuters reported Tuesday that Tehran is close to finalizing an agreement for Chinese-made CM-302 missiles, citing six people with knowledge of the negotiations.
The supersonic weapons, which can travel roughly 180 miles and fly low to evade ship defenses, would enhance Iran’s ability to target U.S. naval forces operating in the region.
The deal is near completion, though no delivery date has been agreed, the people said. It is unclear how many missiles are involved, how much Iran has agreed to pay, or whether China will ultimately proceed given heightened regional tensions.
The CM-302 supersonic anti-ship missile weapon system is shown during the Zhuhai Airshow in Zhuhai, China, Nov. 2, 2016. (Dickson Lee/South China Morning Post via Getty Images)
Reuters reported that negotiations accelerated after last year’s 12-day war between Israel and Iran, which left Tehran’s military infrastructure strained and heightened regional tensions.
The reported deal comes as President Donald Trump warns Tehran of consequences if it fails to curb its nuclear program, while the Pentagon has deployed multiple carrier strike groups to the region, including USS Abraham Lincoln and USS Gerald R. Ford . The buildup marks one of the largest U.S. naval deployments in the region in recent years.
Trump said on Feb. 19 he was giving Iran 10 days to reach an agreement over its nuclear program or face potential military action.
WITKOFF WARNS IRAN IS ‘A WEEK AWAY’ FROM 'BOMB-MAKING MATERIAL' AS TRUMP WEIGHS ACTION
The aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln docks at Souda Bay on the Greek Mediterranean island of Crete, Feb. 24, 2026, following orders by U.S. President Donald Trump to increase the American naval presence in the region. (Costas Metaxakis/AFP via Getty Images)
A White House official told Fox News Digital that the president remains firm that Iran cannot develop nuclear weapons or enrich uranium.
"The president would like to see a deal negotiated, but he has been clear that ‘either we will make a deal or we will have to do something very tough like last time,’" the official said when asked for comment on the reported approaching Iran-China deal.
Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei last week appeared to threaten U.S. warships directly.
"More dangerous than that warship is the weapon that can send that warship to the bottom of the sea," Khamenei wrote on Feb. 17 on X.
Military analysts say a Chinese transfer of supersonic anti-ship missiles could complicate U.S. naval operations in the Persian Gulf and surrounding waters.
"It’s a complete game-changer if Iran has supersonic capability to attack ships in the area," Danny Citrinowicz, a former Israeli intelligence officer and senior Iran researcher at Israel’s Institute for National Security Studies, told Reuters. "These missiles are very difficult to intercept."
IRAN ANNOUNCES TEST OF NEW NAVAL AIR DEFENSE MISSILE IN STRAIT OF HORMUZ AS US MILITARY BUILDUP CONTINUES
The reported deal comes as President Donald Trump, left, warns Tehran of consequences if it fails to curb its nuclear program. Iranian Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is pictured right. (Chip Somodevilla; Iranian Leader Press Office/Anadolu)
Still, U.S. forces maintain layered defenses against Iranian threats, including Patriot missile batteries, Navy destroyers equipped with Standard Missile interceptors and F-35 stealth fighters, Fox News Digital reported.
Last year, Navy destroyers in the eastern Mediterranean intercepted Iranian ballistic missiles using SM-3 interceptors, while Marine Corps F-35Cs operating from USS Abraham Lincoln shot down Iranian drones that approached U.S. assets, according to U.S. Central Command.
Iran has also relied on swarming fast boats, ballistic missiles and drones in past confrontations with U.S. forces.
The White House did not directly address the reported missile negotiations when asked by Reuters. China’s foreign ministry told the outlet it was not aware of the talks.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
The USS Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier docks at Souda Bay on the Greek island of Crete, Feb. 24, 2026. (Stefanos Rapanis/Anadolu via Getty Images)
The potential transfer would mark one of the most advanced Chinese weapons systems supplied to Iran in decades and could test U.S. sanctions authorities if finalized.
As U.S. forces fan out across the region, defense officials have stressed that the buildup is designed to deter Iranian aggression — but warned they are prepared for combat if diplomacy fails.
Reuters contributed to this report.
Michael Dorgan is a writer for Fox News Digital and Fox Business.
You can send tips to michael.dorgan@fox.com and follow him on Twitter @M_Dorgan.