article_id: fox_67
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/nypd-arrests-suspect-park-attack-officers-mamdani-dismissed-snowball-fight
title: NYPD arrests suspect in park attack on officers that Mamdani dismissed as 'snowball fight'
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
'Outnumbered' reacts to New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani downplaying a snowball attack on NYPD officers, calling it a 'snowball fight by kids.'
A man arrested by the New York City Police Department in connection with a snowball attack on officers earlier this week will not be charged with assault, according to the Manhattan District Attorney's Office on Thursday.
Gusmane Coulibaly, 27, was placed on supervised release after being taken into custody Thursday morning on charges of obstructing government administration and harassment, police said.
The charges stem from an incident at Manhattan's Washington Square Park on Monday, in which NYPD officers were pelted with packed snow and ice while responding to reports of a disorderly group. As a result, some officers suffered injuries to the head, neck and face.
The district attorney's office said in a criminal complaint summary on Thursday that they could not prove Coulibaly’s conduct directly caused injury to an officer, which is why he was not charged with assaulting a police officer.
L-R: Suspect Gusmane Coulibaly; NYPD officers. (Credit: X/@@NYPDnews/@BGOnTheScene)
Coulibaly's arrest comes after several days of debate over how the episode should be characterized.
Mayor Zohran Mamdani has said video circulating online appeared to show a snowball fight that "got out of hand," and he questioned whether those involved should face assault charges.
NFL REPORTER CRITICIZES MAMDANI'S DOWNPLAY OF SNOWBALL ATTACK ON NYPD OFFICERS
Snow was hurled at NYPD officers during a blizzard in New York City. (@BGonthescene/X)
Police officials have taken a different view. The department previously circulated images of individuals they described as wanted in connection with an assault on a police officer.
NYPD Commissioner Jessica Tisch said the conduct captured on video was criminal and confirmed that detectives were investigating.
New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani speaks to reporters during a news conference in New York, Tuesday, Feb. 17, 2026. (AP Photo/Seth Wenig)
Leaders of the city’s police unions have also rebuked the mayor’s comments, arguing that throwing ice and compacted snow at responding officers is considered an attack.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Court records show Coulibaly was arrested earlier this month on attempted robbery charges stemming from an incident on the NYC transit system. He is due in Bronx Criminal Court to face those charges on March 16.
Fox News Digital's Rachel Wolf contributed to this report.
Bradford Betz is a Fox News Digital breaking reporter covering crime, political issues, and much more.