article_id: fox_79
url: https://www.foxnews.com/food-drink/americans-zebra-striping-instead-quitting-drinking-michelob-ultra-zero-cashing
title: With Americans 'zebra striping' instead of quitting drinking, Michelob Ultra Zero is cashing in
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Derek Brown, D.C.-based author of "Mindful Mixology: A Comprehensive Guide to No- and Low-Alcohol Cocktails," reveals how to differentiate between the non-traditional alcoholic offerings.
FIRST ON FOX — Americans aren't necessarily quitting drinking — but they are drinking differently.
Michelob Ultra Zero has surged to become the No. 1 top-selling and fastest growing non-alcoholic beer in the country, overtaking Heineken 0.0 just 12 months after launching in January 2025, according to new data from Circana.
Industry observers say the milestone reflects something larger than a single brand's breakout year, however. The rapid ascent underscores a structural shift in how Americans socialize, moderate and think about alcohol.
Rather than abstaining entirely, many consumers are alternating between alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages — a practice known as "zebra striping" — allowing them to extend nights out without the next-day consequences.
"In just 12 months on shelves, Michelob Ultra Zero became the No. 1 top-selling and fastest-growing non-alcohol brew in the industry and the No. 1 innovation in the total beer industry last year," Kyle Norrington, chief commercial officer at Anheuser-Busch, told Fox News Digital.
Anheuser-Busch, which makes Michelob Ultra Zero, has three of the top five non-alcoholic brands, along with No. 3 Budweiser Zero and No. 4 Busch NA, according to Circana.
Michelob Ultra Zero has surpassed Heineken 0.0 to become the top-selling non-alcoholic beer in America. (Anheuser-Busch)
With just 29 calories, Michelob Ultra Zero extends the brand's long-standing association with balanced, fitness-conscious lifestyles, said Ryan Foley, the New Jersey-based author of the book "Non-Alcoholic Drinks for Dummies."
"I know that Michelob, on the alcohol side, is also on fire — so I feel like they're getting a lot of pull-through from both sides of the coin at this point if they're taking over the No. 1 spot," Foley told Fox News Digital.
BUDWEISER UNVEILS PATRIOTIC NEW SUPER BOWL AD HONORING 'DEEP-ROOTED AMERICAN HERITAGE'
The non-alcoholic beer's quick ascent is part of a broader transformation, Foley said.
Consumers are not necessarily giving up alcohol altogether, he said. Instead, many are "zebra striping."
Industry experts say more people are "zebra striping" while drinking. (iStock)
"I think they're just trying to extend their nights and their sessions out," Foley said. "Maybe less than the three martini lunches, and maybe one martini and two NA beers to keep the afternoon productive."
CLICK HERE TO SIGN UP FOR OUR LIFESTYLE NEWSLETTER
That moderation mindset is now deeply embedded in the industry, said Meagen Coester, the Michigan-based founder of AFicioNAdo and the author of what she describes as the first manual on non-alcoholic beer.
"GLP-1s have to be considered as one of the reasons why we're seeing this dramatic shift. It can't be ignored anymore."
"It's not a trend anymore. It is a category," Coester told Fox News Digital.
She noted that advances in de-alcoholization technology have dramatically improved taste, describing processes that allow brewers to match the taste profile of their full-strength counterparts and removing a long-standing barrier for skeptical consumers.
CLICK HERE FOR MORE LIFESTYLE STORIES
Health considerations are also reshaping drinking habits.
Beyond calorie counts, Coester pointed to the rise of GLP-1 weight-loss medications and broader wellness trends as influential forces.
One industry expert believes the rise of GLP-1 weight-loss medications is contributing to the shift toward more non-alcoholic drinks. (iStock)
"GLP-1s have to be considered as one of the reasons why we're seeing this dramatic shift," she said.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
"It can't be ignored anymore."
The forces driving Michelob Ultra Zero's rapid ascent suggest that non-alcoholic beer is not cannibalizing traditional beer so much as expanding its definition.
TEST YOURSELF WITH OUR LATEST LIFESTYLE QUIZ
"It's just another awesome add-on to have within your portfolio," Foley said.
Peter Burke is a lifestyle editor with Fox News Digital. He covers various lifestyle topics, with an emphasis on food and drink.