article_id: fox_80
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/college-student-found-snow-covered-car-dies-carbon-monoxide-poisoning-during-rhode-island-blizzard
title: College student found in snow-covered car dies of carbon monoxide poisoning during Rhode Island blizzard
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News Flash top headlines are here. Check out what's clicking on FoxNews.com.
A college student was found unconscious inside a snow-covered car during a Rhode Island blizzard and later died of carbon monoxide poisoning, the Newport Police Department said Tuesday.
Police and fire crews responded around 7:20 p.m. Monday to a parking lot off Bellevue Avenue after receiving a report of a person inside a vehicle.
When first responders arrived, they found 21-year-old Joseph Boutros, a Salve Regina University student, unconscious inside.
Officials said Boutros had been charging his cellphone inside the car, which was covered in snow and running.
Rhode Island began digging out on Feb. 24, 2026, after a historic blizzard swept through the region Sunday night into Monday. (David DelPoio/The Providence Journal / USA TODAY NETWORK via Imagn Images)
Newport Fire Rescue transported him to Newport Hospital’s emergency room, where he was pronounced dead a short time later.
Police said the "tragic" incident appears to be accidental and reminded the public to ensure vehicle exhaust pipes are clear of snow and debris when cars are idling, as blocked exhaust systems can lead to dangerous carbon monoxide buildup.
According to his profile on the Salve Regina athletics website , Boutros was an offensive lineman on the university’s football team.
MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE EVALUATED IN TENNESSEE AFTER CARBON MONOXIDE LEAK INFILTRATES UNIVERSITY FACILITY
Work crew members carry a snowblower up the steps of the Rhode Island State Capitol on Feb. 24, 2026, in Providence, R.I. (Mark Stockwell/AP)
The 6-foot-1, 290-pound Criminal Justice and Criminology major was from Bohemia, New York , and graduated from Connetquot High School. He was a member of the Class of 2026.
The Salve Regina football team paid tribute to Boutros in a post on Instagram.
"The Salve Football family is heartbroken by the passing of Joseph Boutros. Joseph’s contagious smile, positive spirit, and genuine love for his brothers left a lasting impact on everyone in our program. He was more than a teammate, he was family," the team wrote.
Residents clear driveways after a winter storm dumped about three feet of snow across the region on Feb. 24, 2026, in Cranston, R.I. (Charles Krupa/AP)
"We will honor his legacy by carrying forward the same passion, unity, and joy he brought to us every single day. Rest easy, Joseph."
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
The National Weather Service said Monday the historic blizzard dropped 37.9 inches of snow at T.F. Green International Airport in Providence, the greatest single snowstorm total ever recorded there, surpassing the blizzard of 1978.
Ashley Carnahan is a writer at Fox News Digital.