article_id: fox_86
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/washington-state-stabbing-rampage-leaves-5-dead-including-suspect-shot-deputies
title: Washington state stabbing rampage leaves 5 dead, including suspect shot by deputies
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Five people are dead, including a suspect, after a stabbing attack Tuesday in Purdy, Washington. (Source: KCPQ)
Authorities are investigating after five people were killed Tuesday in a violent stabbing in the middle of a street in Washington state .
The Pierce County Sheriff’s Office (PCSO) confirmed four adult victims were killed in Purdy, along with a 32-year-old male suspect who has not been publicly identified, FOX 13 Seattle reported .
Three of the victims died at the scene, and a fourth was pronounced dead at the hospital, the outlet reported.
The suspect was shot by responding deputies and pronounced dead at the scene.
Five people, including a 32-year-old suspect, were killed in a stabbing in Purdy, Wash., Tuesday, according to the Pierce County Sheriff’s Office. (FOX 13)
Officials said the incident unfolded just after 8:45 a.m., when the sheriff's office was called about a man entering a Purdy home in violation of a no-contact order.
Deputies were on the way to serve the order when multiple witnesses reported a man was "stabbing people" outside the house at about 9:30 a.m., according to the outlet.
The suspect was shot by deputies just three minutes later, authorities said.
The suspect was shot by police, according to officials. (FOX 13)
SUSPECT ACCUSED OF KILLING SLEEPING PASSENGER ON CHICAGO TRAIN FILMED HIMSELF CARRYING OUT ATTACK: PROSECUTORS
The Pierce County Force Investigation Team is leading the investigation.
Pierce County officials did not immediately respond to inquiries from Fox News Digital.
It is unclear what led to the Washington state stabbing attack. (FOX 13)
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Purdy is a small waterfront community near Gig Harbor in western Washington state.
It is about an hour southwest of Seattle and roughly 20 minutes northwest of Tacoma.
This is a developing story. Please check back for updates.
Alexandra Koch is a Fox News Digital journalist who covers breaking news, with a focus on high-impact events that shape national conversation.
She has covered major national crises, including the L.A. wildfires, Potomac and Hudson River aviation disasters, Boulder terror attack, and Texas Hill Country floods.