article_id: fox_90
url: https://www.foxnews.com/us/authorities-preparing-return-home-nancy-guthrie-back-family
title: Authorities preparing to return home of Nancy Guthrie back to family: report
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Fox News correspondent Matt Finn and criminal defense attorney Stuart Kaplan talk the latest developments in the search for Nancy Guthrie on ‘The Story.’
Law enforcement is preparing to turn Nancy Guthrie ’s Tucson home back over to her family, sources told NBC News on Wednesday.
Officials do not believe the home needs to remain sealed as a crime scene or that the family should be barred from entering, the outlet reported.
The United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Arizona confirmed to Fox News Digital that federal prosecutors visited the 84-year-old's property Wednesday to assist the FBI with a "routine legal process."
Federal agents remained at the home for several hours Wednesday afternoon, and several vehicles were seen entering and leaving the driveway throughout the afternoon.
Nancy Guthrie disappeared from her Tucson home in the early morning hours of Feb. 1, with investigators treating the case as an apparent abduction. (Fox Flight Team; Courtesy of NBC)
The mother of "Today" show anchor Savannah Guthrie was reported missing on Feb. 1.
Video from the Fox Flight Team drone on Wednesday showed agents moving in and out of the home and around the backyard.
On Tuesday, Savannah Guthrie posted a video on Instagram announcing a family reward of up to $1 million for information leading to her mother’s recovery. She said the family is also donating $500,000 to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.
The FBI received more than 750 tips after the reward was announced, according to NBC News.
SOURCES REVEAL UPDATE ON DNA RECOVERED INSIDE NANCY GUTHRIE'S HOME
Investigators stand in the entrance to the home of Nancy Guthrie in Tucson, Arizona, on Wednesday, Feb. 25, 2026. (Kat Ramirez for Fox News Digital)
Authorities have not publicly identified a suspect or any persons of interest.
Fox News Digital previously reported that investigators have not ruled out the possibility that Nancy Guthrie may have been abducted by more than one person.
Surveillance footage from her Nest doorbell camera shows a masked man tampering with the device on her doorstep. A separate still image released by the FBI appears to show a similarly dressed man without a backpack or holster, prompting speculation from experts that more than one person may be involved.
DNA leads have yet to produce any breakthroughs in the case.
MULTIPLE SUSPECTS ARE POSSIBLE IN NANCY GUTHRIE'S ABDUCTION
A source familiar tells Fox News Digital that two photos of the suspect in the Nancy Guthrie doorbell video were taken on different days. (FBI )
Samples recovered from inside Nancy Guthrie's Tucson home primarily matched individuals who had a legitimate reason to be there, two federal law enforcement sources told Fox News Digital in a previous report. One unknown sample yielded only a partial profile that could not be entered into the FBI’s CODIS database.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Pima County Sheriff Chris Nanos said DNA recovered from the scene has not yet led investigators to a suspect in Guthrie’s disappearance.
Fox News Digital's Adam Sabes and Michael Ruiz contributed to this report.
Michael Sinkewicz is a writer for Fox News Digital. Story tips can be sent to michael.sinkewicz@fox.com