article_id: nyt_1
url: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2026/02/23/learning/23StudentNewsQuiz.html
title: Weekly Student News Quiz: Supreme Court, Winter Olympics, Lunar New Year
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Compiled by Jeremy Engle Feb. 23, 2026
Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed these past two weeks. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you'll find the answer.
Have you been paying attention to current events recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right.
The Supreme Court ruled on Feb. 20 that President Trump exceeded his authority to enact which centerpiece of his second-term agenda?
Deploying the National Guard in American cities
Eliminating hundreds of thousands of federal jobs through DOGE
Imposing sweeping tariffs on imports from nearly every U.S. trading partner
The most-wanted cartel boss in which country was killed on Feb. 22 after a government operation to capture him, setting off a wave of fires and violence?
The 2026 Winter Games in Italy are over. All of the following are headlines, published in The New York Times or The Athletic, from this year’s Games EXCEPT:
“Alysa Liu, Bursting With Joy, Wins First U.S. Olympic Women’s Figure Skating Gold in 24 Years”
“Milan-Cortina’s Canine Stars: How the First-Ever Olympic Dog Sledding Competition Stole the Show”
“Norway Breaks Its Own Record for Most Gold Medals at a Single Winter Olympics”
A new film adaptation of “Wuthering Heights,” considered by many to be the greatest love story ever, opened on Feb. 13 starring Margot Robbie and Jacob Elordi as the tortured lovers Catherine and Heathcliff.
Who is the author of the classic 19th-century novel?
The Trump administration on Feb. 12 announced that it was erasing the scientific finding that effectively ends the federal government’s legal authority to combat what?
Lead paint in schools
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, pictured above, died last week at 84. He was best known as what?
A prominent civil rights leader and two-time presidential candidate
A world-renowned jazz trumpeter and pioneer of the “Bebop” movement
The first African American to serve as a justice on the Supreme Court
The Federal Aviation Administration briefly shut down the airspace over El Paso, Texas. What was the cause?
An airport radar malfunction
Nine skiers were killed after they were overcome by a natural disaster in the mountains near Lake Tahoe last week.
What type of event caused this tragedy?
In Lunar New Year celebrations around the world, more than a billion people said goodbye to the Year of the Snake and welcomed what year?
The Year of the Dragon
The Year of the Horse
The Year of the Monkey
According to a new study, elephants are blind without what?
Tiny whiskers on their trunks