article_id: nyt_100
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/brooks-barnes?page=5
title: Brooks Barnes
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I write about all things Hollywood, from the serious to the silly, with a focus on Disney and its many parts. My remit includes the box office, movie theaters, the Oscars, talent agencies, Hollywood unions and the occasional celebrity misadventure. I’m also the point person for Disney and Universal theme parks.
My stories often focus on tension between Old Hollywood and New. Technology has severely disrupted the once-mighty film and television businesses. Can they adapt? It’s an open question, one that will affect what the world watches and how.
Because I have covered Hollywood for a long time, I sometimes write analytical pieces attempting to place what is happening in a larger context and historical framework.
I joined The New York Times in 2007 to report on Disney and movies for the business and culture desks and wrote the Scene Stealers column for Sunday Styles for nine years. I previously spent eight years as a reporter at The Wall Street Journal, where I covered the television industry, Broadway and the art market. Before that, I worked at The Philadelphia Inquirer and The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel.
I was born in rural Montana. I have undergraduate degrees in journalism and English from Marquette University in Wisconsin and a graduate degree in cultural reporting and criticism from New York University.
I uphold the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook , which means, among other things, that I protect confidential sources and go to great lengths to be fair. I strive to give everyone a chance to comment.
I do not accept gifts or money from people who might figure into my reporting, including meals, hotel rooms, airfare or theme park tickets. I do not moderate panel discussions during Oscar or Emmy season. I do not make political donations, nor do I attend fund-raisers unless I am reporting on them.
Email: brooks@nytimes.com
Signal: +1 917-407-5408
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
Employees at the company had started to warm to the idea of Netflix as its corporate owner. Now they face the prospect of major cuts under Paramount.
By Brooks Barnes and John Koblin
If Paramount can close its deal to buy Warner Bros. Discovery, Larry and David Ellison will influence nearly every corner of news, entertainment and tech.
By John Koblin and Brooks Barnes
Warner Bros. spent an estimated $80 million on the R-rated romance, directed by Emerald Fennell, not including hefty marketing costs.
Casey Wasserman, a Los Angeles entertainment executive and the head of the 2028 Olympic Games, has lost clients since his emails with Ghislaine Maxwell surfaced.
By Shawn Hubler, Ben Sisario and Emmanuel Morgan
Casey Wasserman exchanged flirtatious messages over 20 years ago with Ghislaine Maxwell, a longtime companion of Jeffrey Epstein. The 2028 board said its review found no other indiscretions related to Mr. Epstein.
By Jesus Jiménez, Shawn Hubler and Laurel Rosenhall
Mr. D’Amaro, 54, has most recently served as chairman of Disney Experiences, a division that includes theme parks, cruise vacations and consumer products.
Per-share quarterly profit declined 7 percent from a year earlier, with difficulties in movies and TV offsetting robust Disney+ and theme park results.
Amazon backed up the Brink’s trucks for the vanity film, resulting in weekend ticket sales of about $7 million in North America, enough for third place.
Peter Chernin, an industry veteran who founded North Road in 2022, said his deal with Mediawan met a need to get bigger in an era of consolidation.
By Lauren Hirsch and Brooks Barnes
The biggest challenge for Josh D’Amaro as Disney’s next chief executive might be escaping Bob Iger’s shadow.
The tech giant is spending $35 million to promote its film about the first lady, far more than is typical for documentaries.
By Nicole Sperling and Brooks Barnes
“One Battle After Another” was close behind with 13 nods. Acting nominees include Michael B. Jordan, Kate Hudson, Timothée Chalamet and Teyana Taylor.
By Brooks Barnes and Nicole Sperling
Artificial intelligence meets the entertainment industry: What could possibly go wrong?
By Michael Barbaro, Alex Barron, Tina Antolini, Luke Vander Ploeg, Alissa Wilkinson, Brooks Barnes, Wendy Dorr, Rowan Niemisto and Daniel Powell
Kathleen Kennedy stepped down as Lucasfilm’s president and returned to producing. Two studio veterans took over.
Ticket sales in North America totaled $8.9 billion for the year, up 2 percent from 2024. But the box office remains far below prepandemic levels.
For years she was pigeonholed as a rom-com star. Her turn as a blue-collar mom with a love of Neil Diamond just might vault her back to the Oscars.
By Brooks Barnes and Thea Traff
“Avatar: Fire and Ash” took in $88 million over the weekend, a sizable No. 1 total that nonetheless fell 34 percent behind the opening for its franchise predecessor.
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences said it had reached a deal with YouTube for exclusive rights to the show starting in 2029.
By Brooks Barnes and John Koblin
The claim was made as part of Warner Bros. Discovery’s dismissal of Paramount’s hostile takeover offer.
By Lauren Hirsch and Brooks Barnes
We polled film experts in the newsroom. These are the titles that stuck with us this year.
By The New York Times
The son of Rob Reiner and Michele Singer Reiner, who has pleaded not guilty to charges of first-degree murder, has long struggled with drug addiction.
By Derrick Bryson Taylor
Rob Reiner and his son, Nick, had a dispute at a party hosted by Conan O’Brien the night before the director and his wife were found dead.
By Shawn Hubler, Brooks Barnes and Jason Zinoman
Mr. Reiner, who was arrested in connection with the deaths of Rob and Michele Reiner, once estimated he had been in drug treatment 18 times as a teenager.
By Julia Jacobs and Nicole Sperling
He and his father, the director Rob Reiner, also worked together on a film that was loosely inspired by the son’s early life.
The deal is a watershed for Hollywood, which has been trying to sort through the possible harms and upsides of generative artificial intelligence.
By Brooks Barnes and Cade Metz
It’s hard to make a movie studio tour exciting when movies aren’t made there anymore. “A vibe of tiredness, like the end of something,” one guest said.
By Brooks Barnes and Ricardo Nagaoka
Much of the entertainment capital fears that Netflix’s deal will lead to more job losses and theater closings and fewer boundary-pushing movies.
By Brooks Barnes and Shawn Hubler
The deal to acquire the Hollywood behemoth’s television and film studios as well as HBO Max will bulk up the world’s biggest paid streaming service.
By Brooks Barnes, Lauren Hirsch and Nicole Sperling
Gary Goldman, who has battled Disney in court over the franchise, thinks the viper Gary De’Snake is based on him.
The Disney sequel took in $156 million in North America over its first five days. Strong turnout in China pushed the film’s global opening total to $556 million.
Jared Bush is trying to make the heart of the media empire beat more consistently. “Zootopia 2” will be a test.
The Jim Henson Company sold its longtime studio and is auctioning Muppets memorabilia for the first time in its 70-year history.
By Brooks Barnes and Michelle Groskopf
The New York Times wants to learn more about how viewing habits are evolving.
By John Koblin, Brooks Barnes and Nicole Sperling
The outcome of the sale could alter the trajectory of the entertainment business.
By Benjamin Mullin, Lauren Hirsch and Nicole Sperling
After a 15-day standoff, a deal cleared the way for YouTube TV to resume carrying ESPN, ABC and other Disney-owned channels.
It has been a brutal three months for dramas and comedies.
Talks between YouTube TV and Disney about fees broke down on Thursday ahead of a deadline, with each company publicly blaming the other.
By Francesca Regalado and Brooks Barnes
Losing the stand-alone studio, suddenly a real possibility, would be “heartbreaking,” one producer said.
By Brooks Barnes and Nicole Sperling
Roughly three million Americans canceled the streaming service in the month that it temporarily suspended Jimmy Kimmel’s show. About 4.1 million people canceled Disney-owned Hulu.
“The Official Release Party of a Showgirl” drastically outperformed “The Smashing Machine,” a vehicle for Dwayne Johnson, known to fans as the Rock.
Even the long lines won’t keep us away.
By Gilbert Cruz, Mekado Murphy, Brooks Barnes, Alex Barron, Tina Antolini, Kate LoPresti, Luke Vander Ploeg, Wendy Dorr, Rowan Niemisto, Dan Powell, Elisheba Ittoop, Marion Lozano and Diane Wong
Paul Thomas Anderson’s film collected $22.4 million in North America over the weekend, enough for No. 1. But its profitability remains a big question.
The film is the kind that isn’t supposed to work in theaters anymore. But Warner Bros., the studio behind it, has successfully bucked trends for months now.
By Nicole Sperling and Brooks Barnes
Nexstar and Sinclair say their boycott of the late-night host is all about what he said. But both are exploring deals for their sprawling networks of local TV stations.
By Erik Wemple and Benjamin Mullin
The network’s removal of Mr. Kimmel’s show last week almost immediately morphed into a flashpoint for free speech in America.
By John Koblin, Brooks Barnes, Michael M. Grynbaum and Benjamin Mullin
Behind ABC’s decision was a display of how influential members of the Trump administration have become in shaping how media companies operate.
By Keith Collins and Raj Saha
The abrupt programming decision quickly morphed into a flashpoint for free speech in America under the Trump administration.
By John Koblin, Brooks Barnes, Benjamin Mullin and Michael M. Grynbaum
Mr. Kimmel faced criticism from the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission for remarks about the politics of the man who is accused of killing Mr. Kirk, the conservative activist.
By John Koblin, Michael M. Grynbaum and Brooks Barnes
Mr. Redford’s outspoken opinions and his championing of young filmmakers overshadowed his many criticisms of the industry.
By Brooks Barnes and Nicole Sperling
He made serious topics like grief and political corruption resonate with the masses, in no small part because of his own star power.