article_id: nyt_101
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/saikou-jammeh
title: Saikou Jammeh
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I work on breaking news, investigations and profiles. I have a particular interest in using data to make sense of events and trends in this region.
I’m drawn to the mysteries of the Sahel — the arid strip of land just under the Sahara — where there are juntas, jihadists, resilient communities and the enduring legacy of ancient kingdoms, along with vibrant music and diverse cultures.
I also have a deep interest in Nigeria and Congo, with their vast resources and beauty, yet also complex realities. They perfectly embody the region’s promise and struggles — their youth drive innovation on the continent but are also risking their lives on migrant trails to look for opportunities elsewhere.
My mission is to help build a more nuanced perspective of the complexities of West and Central Africa.
I also assist editors and other reporters with research, translations and interviews.
I joined The Times in 2024. Before that, I spent a year working between Dakar and Nairobi, Kenya, managing investigative reporting projects on international criminal justice.
I’m from Gambia, and I founded and edited an investigative reporting newspaper there in 2020. I worked as a journalist there for nearly a decade under a dictatorship, an experience that shapes and drives my dedication to holding power to account.
I’ve traveled quite extensively in the world, and have family connections across West Africa. But I’ve lived mostly in Gambia, a tiny but lovely country.
Now, I am learning to live peaceably with my Senegalese cousins, reluctantly speaking Wolof their way and telling everyone who cares to listen that even Senegal’s national dish of thiebou jen is better in Gambia.
As a Times journalist, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in The Times’s Ethical Journalism Handbook .
I led the creation of the first code of ethics for Gambian journalists. With detailed guidelines, resources and support systems. The Times’s expansive approach to the ethical questions we face every day makes navigating ethical dilemmas much easier. I like to be free but responsible, fair and honest.
Email: saikou.jammeh@nytimes.com
Facebook: Saikou Jammeh
WhatsApp: +2203730077
LinkedIn: Saikou Jammeh
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
The country has one of the most feared armed forces in Africa, yet within its own borders, it has repeatedly failed to stop abductions and attacks.
By Saikou Jammeh, Ruth Maclean, Dickson Adama and Ismail Auwal
The deployment follows months of escalating pressure from President Trump on the African nation, including a surprise missile strike on Christmas Day.
By Ruth Maclean, Eric Schmitt and Ismail Alfa
A TV presenter and one of Senegal’s best-known musicians appeared in court on Monday in one of the country’s most high-profile anti-gay cases in years.
By Ruth Maclean, Saikou Jammeh and Babacar Fall
The raiders stormed a rural community in central Nigeria, killing dozens and setting homes on fire in one of the country’s worst recent attacks.
By Ruth Maclean, Ismail Auwal and Saikou Jammeh
A yearslong effort to convince Washington of religious persecution is shifting foreign policy toward the West African nation, with major consequences.
By Dionne Searcey, Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Ruth Maclean and Eric Schmitt
Spotty research from a Christian activist has been used by Republican lawmakers to justify U.S. intervention in the country.
The attackers also abducted an unspecified number of people, including students from a Catholic school where over 300 people were kidnapped in November.
By Saikou Jammeh, Ismail Alfa and Eric Schmitt
Gen. Mamady Doumbouya, who seized power more than four years ago, took over 80 percent of the vote, according to a government-controlled agency that he set up.
The West African countries said they made the decisions in retaliation against the Trump administration.
Whoever wins faces the daunting task of feeding the West African country’s poor and navigating the interests of global powers seeking critical minerals, analysts say.