article_id: nyt_102
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7006749/2026/02/03/tottenham-arsenal-west-ham-crowd-stadiums/
title: How much can crowd tensions inside a stadium affect player performance?
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The atmosphere at Tottenham's stadium on Sunday was transformed in the second half Izzy Poles - AMA/Getty Images
Forget about the football match, the atmosphere at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium was a sound of two halves.
With Thomas Frank’s side 2-0 down to Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City on Sunday, the home crowd made their feelings known through a chorus of boos at half-time. That had followed a first half where there seemed to be a sense of apathy among the Spurs supporters, some would say understandably, given their team’s recent Premier League form.
However, fast-forward 45 minutes and they were at their vocal best, urging Tottenham on in hope of a dramatic winner after two goals from Dominic Solanke had levelled the scores.
“How united the fans and the players were second half,” Frank said in his post-match press conference. “That’s what we need to build. The fans helped us massively and pushed us towards a big point, and they were fantastic against Dortmund (in the previous home game, in the Champions League), so if we can do that more and more consistently together, we can create some magic.”
This was not the first time in north London recently that supporters have aired their concerns.
Arsenal’s 3-2 defeat to Manchester United on January 25 was their first home loss all season, but the tension and frustration inside the Emirates Stadium that Sunday were noticeable. Some boos were also heard at the final whistle.
Manager Mikel Arteta spoke after the match about the need to “bring the temperature down”, urging the club’s supporters to “jump in this boat, because it’s going to be fun”.
And with Arsenal leading the Premier League by six points, finishing top of the Champions League table after the eight-game league phase to qualify directly for the round of 16, reaching the Carabao Cup semi-finals and facing Wigan Athletic of League One (English football’s third tier) at home in the FA Cup fourth round next week, there is plenty for those fans to be excited about.
“We have earned the right to be in a great position in four competitions, and in the next four months we’re going to live and play with enjoyment, with a lot of courage and with the conviction that we’re going to win it,” Arteta said at his pre-match press conference last Tuesday for the Champions League finale against Kairat of Kazakhstan, which they won 3-2.
Elsewhere, Nuno Espirito Santo is another Premier League head coach who has aired his concerns at the in-stadium atmosphere at home games after his West Ham United side lost 2-0 against Brentford in October.
And for Frank at Tottenham, the frustration heard inside their stadium on Sunday was nothing new, with supporters calling for a head coach only appointed last summer to be sacked following defeat there to local rivals West Ham last month .
Home crowds airing their frustration is nothing new, and the tension, especially for those teams chasing the title or trying to avoid relegation, will only increase as the season races towards crunch time.
Whether it is Arsenal fans lamenting a defeat to United or Tottenham supporters calling for Frank to go, disgruntlement from the stands in your own stadium can trickle down to the players.
Dan Abrahams, a global sports psychologist who has worked with some of the biggest names in football, is all too familiar with how tension among the spectators can impact what is happening on the pitch.
Speaking generally and not specifically about one club, Abrahams tells The Athletic : “Numerous case studies demonstrate that crowd behaviour can absolutely influence the players.
“When you spend time with players and you talk to them about this, there are some who will say that they can’t hear anything (from the stands), they’re focused on the game, or they can hear it and it doesn’t impact them, or they can hear it and it does impact them.
“We are designed to pick up on cues, so we look around us, and we judge what other people think about us. In a football scenario, that could be a crowd, so tension in the crowd can absolutely impact tension on the pitch. Feelings on the pitch can distract players, and they can evoke anxiety and a stress response. They can impact technical coordination, tactical awareness, anticipation, decision making, all the aspects that are so important.”
When Nuno aired his concerns about the atmosphere at West Ham’s London Stadium in October, he pinpointed the anxiety it can cause.
“We are all concerned,” the head coach told reporters in his post-match press conference after that loss to Brentford. “You can see our own fans are concerned.
“Concern becomes anxiety, becomes silence. We have a problem. It’s understandable. It’s up to us to change. The fans need to see something that pleases them, and (then) they can support us and give us energy.
“I understand it, I understand it totally, and I respect it. It’s up to us. It’s up to us to change it.”
West Ham’s supporters, however, have endured a torrid run, seeing only three home wins in the Premier League this season. Their anger has also been vented towards the club’s owners.
After that defeat against Manchester United last month, Arsenal captain Martin Odegaard spoke about the importance of blocking out the noise coming from the crowd.
“We can’t listen too much to the expectations and everything around it,” he said, as reported by The Times . “We have to be together and just focus on every game. As I said many times, that is the key — to just be in the moment.”
Asked what impact a negative atmosphere can have on a player during a match, Abrahams explains the three most appropriate words are “hesitation, inhibition and passivity”, which can lead to “competing with a low level of intent”.
“Intent is the style in which you’re executing your actions,” Abrahams says. “A low level of intent tends to be hesitation, inhibition and a degree of passiveness.”
A high level of intent, Abrahams says, would look like “more energy”, “purposefulness”, and players being “positive and proactive”.
“But players can hide a little bit,” he adds. “They don’t find space, they don’t cover space, they don’t necessarily want the ball, or they are not willing to play the brave pass.”
After Tottenham’s fans vented their anger towards Frank, he made clear he would rather they boo him than Spurs’ team.
“I probably have had better times,” Frank said in his post-match press conference. “I’m the man in charge, so the blame will go to me. That’s fair, no problem in that sense.
“As long as they are backing the players, doing everything they can to support them and drive them forward, and we will keep going forward.”
In a dream world, Abrahams notes, fans would only be positive towards their club’s players, which, in turn, could lead to better performances and results — but that will never be the reality.
“If you can wave a magic wand and have everybody in the stadium supporting the team from the first minute to the last minute, irrespective of what goes on on the pitch, that would be your ideal scenario,” he says. “But people will say they pay their money and that the players are paid well and living out their dream. People will say they are entitled to their opinion, so that would be a fantasy world.
“It’s just not the way human beings function and it’s not the way elite sport works, and you have to accept that.”
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Dan Sheldon is a football news correspondent for The Athletic. He has previously covered Manchester City, Manchester United, Chelsea and Southampton FC. Follow Dan on Twitter @ Dan_Sheldon_