article_id: nyt_106
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/dodai-stewart
title: Dodai Stewart
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I write about living in New York City, with a focus on how, and where, we gather. In addition, I seek out under-the-radar stories that offer an unexpected or counterintuitive glimpse into the city and the people who live here.
My storytelling interests are rooted in the zeitgeist, society and the human experience. Before writing for the Metro section, I spearheaded a series at The Times called “It’s Never Too Late,” which profiled individuals who started new careers or followed personal pursuits later in life. My previous experience includes serving as a senior editor at Fusion Media Group and as the editor in chief of the news and opinion site Splinter. Before that, I was one of the founding editors of Jezebel, a website for women that launched in 2007.
I was raised in New York City, attending the Bronx High School of Science and New York University, where I was a screenwriting major. I currently live in Manhattan with a rescued poodle.
I want my stories to reflect the voices and perspectives of the people who live in New York and the broad diversity of the city. I strive to be fair, accurate and empathetic in my coverage. Though I have many friends and family members in New York City, I do not write about them. When reporting, I do not accept gifts or discounted goods and services — including food. I make every effort to understand issues from multiple angles. When I am working, I always identify myself as a reporter for The Times. You can learn more about The Times’ ethics policy here .
Email: dodai.stewart@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
As Mayor Zohran Mamdani assailed what he called a “catastrophic escalation” in Iran, some Iranian Americans worried about what comes next, while others celebrated.
Across the five boroughs, New Yorkers sledded and frolicked, but the best moments were when the city stood still.
This was featured in live coverage.
Many people who commute into Manhattan got their first taste of the crowded platforms that are expected to become common over the next month as the Portal Bridge is reworked.
NJ Transit suggested that commuters should work from home for the next month, as Amtrak moves train traffic to a new bridge, severely reducing service into Manhattan.
Astoria, first spotted in Queens last spring, is now a resident of Lower Manhattan, where three devoted women watch over her.
Mountains of rock-solid filthy snow. Narrow, icy sidewalks. Temperatures that sound like shoe sizes. When will it end?
Beyond stuffy old money institutions and noisy sports bars, hidden gems abound.
Thirty years ago, the newfangled method of paying for New York City’s buses and subways seemed like cutting-edge technology. Now, its days are numbered.
There are almost 4,500 people on a waiting list to get into Nine26, a monthly Dominican-themed supper club.