article_id: nyt_107
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/alissa-wilkinson?page=9
title: Alissa Wilkinson
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
In my work, I’m not trying to tell readers whether they should like a movie. Instead, I aim to expand my readers’ understanding of the movies, exploring what a movie is trying to do, what makes it interesting or revealing, and how it connects to the broader culture. Movies, and screen-based entertainment overall, shape our world in immeasurable ways. My goal is to help readers think better about the culture around them, whether or not it’s to their taste (or mine).
I’ve been writing about movies since 2005, first as a freelancer for publications like Vulture, Rolling Stone and Paste, then as a staff critic at Vox. I have an M.F.A. in creative nonfiction writing and an M.A. in humanities and social thought, and I’ve taught writing and cultural studies since 2009. My most recent book, “We Tell Ourselves Stories: Joan Didion and the American Dream Machine,” which explores American mythmaking in Hollywood, was published by Liveright in March 2025.
Like all Times journalists, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook . I never want my opinions about a movie to be shaped by the companies that make and distribute the movie, and never receive payments or favors from them for reviews or features. I don’t vote on awards, receive compensation from a film festival in return for coverage, or write about a movie made by a friend.
Email: alissa.wilkinson@nytimes.com
Threads: @alissawilkinson
LinkedIn: Alissa Wilkinson
The latest Pixar movie centers on pudgy beavers and a spunky teenager determined to save their habitat.
The Morgan Neville-directed film relies on new and archival interviews to cover familiar ground: the years after the Beatles broke up.
These three connected stories about the whole of human history can’t quite sustain the necessary emotional heft.
Her films, including “Saltburn” and “Promising Young Woman,” are exhilarating to some, enraging to others. Where do you stand?
Newly found footage makes for a fun and revealing concert movie from the director Baz Luhrmann.
Three critics briefly consider the short films nominated for the 98th Academy Awards.
By Jeannette Catsoulis, Alissa Wilkinson and Ben Kenigsberg
For more than 50 years, the influential documentarian found inspiration in filming the ways his ordinary subjects lived their lives.
Commissioned by the International Olympic Committee, the movies provide a fascinating glimpse of history and the evolution of different sports.
Two sons accompany their father for the day in a poignant and bittersweet Nigerian debut film.
Gore Verbinski returns with a weird, wild movie about stopping a rogue A.I., for the 117th time.
The documentary highlights a few notable predecessors in the role, burnishing Mrs. Trump’s image by extension. But one apt comparison is pointedly left out.
Framed as a sports tale, “Queen of Chess,” directed by Rory Kennedy, recounts the life of Judit Polgar, who battled sexism as much as rival players.
Suzannah Herbert’s film centers on antebellum mansions and the narratives the owners want to tell about the South.
A once-promising writer learns some painful lessons in a tragicomic Colombian tale.
A family navigates the year after parents separate in this funny, surrealist Icelandic drama.
Reflecting the power of nonfiction filmmaking, each contender involves subjects and even directors resisting authority in different ways.
Claire Foy stars along with a goshawk in an adaptation of Helen MacDonald’s award-winning memoir.
Artificial intelligence meets the entertainment industry: What could possibly go wrong?
By Michael Barbaro, Alex Barron, Tina Antolini, Luke Vander Ploeg, Alissa Wilkinson, Brooks Barnes, Wendy Dorr, Rowan Niemisto and Daniel Powell
The director Brittany Shyne’s film is slow-moving and lyrical in its focus on the seasonal rhythms of the work, even as it shifts to policy concerns.
The latest installment in the zombie saga is all about evil and good, and whether any of it exists.
Here’s who our film critics Manohla Dargis and Alissa Wilkinson think voters should pick.
By Manohla Dargis and Alissa Wilkinson
The Dardenne brothers’ latest film is a tender portrait of four teenage moms in a Belgian maternity shelter.
The Shakespearean monologue that is featured twice in “Hamnet” has long informed the movies, often in surprising ways that can make us rethink the words.
Christopher Nolan goes (even more) epic, Lisa Kudrow makes another “Comeback” and Marcel Duchamp gets an overdue retrospective.
By Holland Cotter, Maya Phillips, James Poniewozik, Joshua Barone, Alissa Wilkinson, Mike Hale, Gia Kourlas and Jason Zinoman
“One Battle After Another,” “Sinners” and other movies we loved this year.
By Gilbert Cruz, Alissa Wilkinson, Nicole Sperling, Alex Barron, Tina Antolini, Kate LoPresti, Wendy Dorr, Daniel Ramirez, Dan Powell, Marion Lozano, Elisheba Ittoop and Diane Wong
In an extraordinary performance, Amanda Seyfried plays the founder of the Shakers in a singular film.
A stunner of a debut film follows a group of boys at a water polo camp, where an outsider is just trying to fit in.
This documentary could be better, but it offers a helpful lesson for film fans new to the movies of that decade.
Sydney Sweeney and Amanda Seyfried star in a thriller that is best seen with a full house.
In films like “A Few Good Men,” the director’s ideas of honor and morality were stated as plainly as could be.
In movies like “Eddington,” “Sinners,” “Wake Up Dead Man” and others, filmmakers have at last wrapped their heads around how to explain this period.
Aunt Gladys. Tyler, the Creator. That sex scene in “The Naked Gun.” These are the things Culture staffers couldn’t stop thinking about this year.
By The New York Times
James L. Brooks returns with a lieutenant governor comedy that might leave you more confused than amused.
To tell the story of the demonstrations surrounding a World Trade Organization meeting, “WTO/99” assembled scenes shot by the participants themselves.
Noah Baumbach’s latest film has George Clooney playing the last of the old-school movie stars.
Our film critics rank their 10 favorites of the year.
By Manohla Dargis and Alissa Wilkinson
Films that take their stories from the Old or New Testament are filling screens big and small. To understand why, it helps to know Hollywood history.
The birds’ presence lends an otherworldly air to this nonfiction look at a family farm in a dying North Macedonian village.
Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal star in a heartbreaking adaptation of the best-selling novel.
Josh O’Connor leads a star-studded cast in the latest Benoit Blanc mystery — this one, about religious cults of personality.
Charlie Shackleton explains how he would have made a film had he won the rights to a book on a murderer. The result is a fascinating look at a whole genre.
Joel Edgerton stars in a gorgeous film based on Denis Johnson’s celebrated novella about a laborer in the Pacific Northwest.
A combination of technological developments and market forces is undermining the trust between viewer and filmmaker. What’s at stake is history itself.
True Crime, celebrity docs, Ken Burns: There’s no shortage of nonfiction films to watch now.
By Gilbert Cruz, James Poniewozik, Alissa Wilkinson, Alex Barron, Luke Vander Ploeg, Tina Antolini, Kate LoPresti, Wendy Dorr, Sophia Lanman, Dan Powell, Marion Lozano, Elisheba Ittoop and Diane Wong
The film chronicles the poet Andrea Gibson’s final year of living with cancer and trying to make every second count.
The Horsemen return, with some new additions, and are off to right the world’s wrongs once more.
The film captures the friendship between an Iranian filmmaker and a Gaza City resident. They never actually meet but speak movingly via video calls.
The actress gives a career-defining performance opposite Robert Pattinson in Lynne Ramsay’s latest.
New shows by Jen Tullock, Jordan E. Cooper and others have a common theme: You can walk away from the church, but the songs stay with you.
The ticking-clock threat of an imminent missile strike makes for propulsive viewing. It’s long been a go-to setup in Hollywood, from “Dr. Strangelove” on.
This film uses archival clips and documents to examine the way climate change evolved from nonpartisan topic to divisive issue.
Colin Farrell stars in Edward Berger’s eye-popping but lethargic follow-up to ‘Conclave.’
In China, a professional can be hired to break up a cheating spouse’s extramarital relationship. Elizabeth Lo’s remarkable film takes us up close.
Emma Stone and Jesse Plemons star in the latest absurdity from Yorgos Lanthimos.
A reader asks for help navigating the many places, online and off, where a new film might be showing.
Geeta Gandbhir’s film examines the killing of a Florida woman and “stand your ground” laws, but the issues it raises are bigger than those statutes.
The director’s interpretation of Mary Shelley’s classic novel is the movie he was born to make.
Ethan Hawke plays the legendary lyricist Lorenz Hart on a wistful one-night quest to save his soul.
Her character, an early-20th-century journalist, undergoes the most dramatic transformation of the film in ways that the actress was especially suited for.
More or less a standard-issue celebrity documentary, the movie lets us enjoy archival footage that might otherwise not be seen.
Luca Guadagnino’s campus drama falls on its face trying to court controversy.
The third “Tron” movie continues the saga begun over four decades ago, and now, the programs are in our world.
Though Andrew Jarecki and Charlotte Kaufman are the directors, inmates with smuggled phones are important collaborators.
Dwayne Johnson shines, but the movie around him tells the wrong story.
The tour started by Sarah McLachlan is the subject of the film, which includes a who’s who of women making music in that era.
June Squibb stars in Scarlett Johansson’s sometimes moving but often uneven directorial debut.
In the new memoir “Awake,” the evangelical star Jen Hatmaker explores how the implosion of her 26-year marriage helped lead to a spiritual reckoning.
A drama about the rise and fall and rise again of a founder of Tinder and Bumble suffers from some flimsiness.
The Outlaw, the Romantic, the Survivor: From the Sundance Kid to his final role, he showed different ways to be a hero onscreen.
His knowledge of the ways cameras and media create narratives helped him redirect those stories in service of larger causes like environmentalism.
Her casting in the forthcoming “Kiss of the Spider Woman” underscores how her best onscreen work has always been informed by what’s happening offscreen.
The movie peels back the layers of a headline story to find a complex tale, centuries in the making.
Corey Hawkins and Willem Dafoe star in an overstuffed drama about a man haunted by the weight of history.
“A Savage Art” looks at the life of the prizewinning Pat Oliphant and argues such work is “a serious expression of a political thought.”
Dylan O’Brien stars in an uneven but heartfelt tragicomedy about loneliness and longing.
Dolly Parton in Vegas, a shrine to David Bowie, a new standup special from Kumail Nanjiani and other picks from our critics and writers.
By Dwight Garner, Jesse Green, Alexandra Jacobs, Gia Kourlas, Alex Marshall, Melena Ryzik, Maya Salam, Jennifer Szalai, Alissa Wilkinson and Jason Zinoman
Our critic went to Las Vegas to see the immersive presentation of the classic 1939 film. What she saw defied easy categorization.
Benedict Cumberbatch and Olivia Colman star in a strangely bad remake of “The War of the Roses.”
Parasocial relationships and obsession in the age of social media take a nasty twist in a tightly wound debut thriller.
One of the year’s most towering achievements is a documentary about Russian independent journalism being wiped out in real time.
Hind Meddeb followed young people in Khartoum, focusing on their hopes and fears to create a kind of living record of history.
Lindsay Lohan and Jamie Lee Curtis are back with even more body-swapping in a sequel to the 2003 comedy.
Ebs Burnough’s movie covers the novel as well as its influence on generations of readers, including many artists.
Caleb Landry Jones stars in a tale of a medieval Scottish village vanishing.
The documentary, from Oscar winner Mstyslav Chernov and Alex Babenko, calls to mind video games as it questions how we engage with stories of war.
Molly Gordon and Logan Lerman go upstate for a romantic weekend away, and things go wrong.
The man of steel is back, and in this latest reboot, earnestness is a superpower.
By Luke Vander Ploeg, Wendy Dorr, Efim Shapiro, Gilbert Cruz, Alissa Wilkinson and Kyle Buchanan
Shari Lewis’s pioneering role in children’s television becomes clear in a new film that can be perfunctory about her life.
Ari Aster returns with a dystopian western farce about a world gone mad that you definitely remember.
The director combined camera, sound and perspective techniques to create almost unbearable tension and anxiety for the audience.