article_id: nyt_109
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/organization/cbgb?page=10
title: CBGB
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The punk-rock icon and writer has spent more than 50 years in his East Village tenement apartment.
By Rebecca Flint Marx
In the ’70s, New York’s bohemia was devoted to hostile yet arty rock. Mr. Smith had two qualities rare in the scene: personal and musical understatement.
He documented the punk and post-punk music scene in the East Village, leading an independent film movement that was proudly unprofessional.
With the Contortions and James White and the Blacks, the songwriter and saxophonist set out to challenge musicians and stir up audiences.
He first attracted attention with the band Television, a fixture of the New York punk rock scene. But his music wasn’t so easily categorized.
By Gavin Edwards and Peter Keepnews
Weary of the angry and aggressive sound of New York’s musical underground of the late 1970s, he returned to rock’s roots and seeded a rockabilly revival.
High school students spent their nights forging a colorful late-night scene marked by big choruses and few rules. The bands didn’t last, but the taste of art and freedom shaped their lives.
Luc Sante, author of “Low Life,” chats about the neighborhood’s history, including CBGB, Warhol’s Electric Circus and the Tompkins Square Park riots.
From blackface minstrels to the Velvet Underground to virtual reality: How a gritty neighborhood in New York always turned out the most vital music.
Their music spans genres and generations, but six iconic performers strike a similar chord in their new memoirs. The dominant note? Honesty.
By The New York Times
Alice Sparberg Alexiou’s history of the Bowery, “Devil’s Mile,” is a narrative not only of the famous street but also of New York City.
Target drew criticism when the grand opening of its new East Village location included a re-creation of CBGB’s facade.
Our selective timeline of the events that transformed the city over three extraordinary years.
Rockers from the downtown scene of the 1970s and ’80s are keeping the flame alive, and their gray-haired fans are happy to party like it’s 1979.
“Whatever glamour there was on that stage,” he writes, “many of the artists were basically subsisting at poverty level.”
The Limelight, CBGB, Studio 54, Max’s Kansas City: A poem about where they have all gone.
In his photographs of the 1970s music scene, David Godlis helped capture the grit and urgency of the era.
The painter Duncan Hannah recalled his star-struck days mingling with Warhol and Bowie and the like when CBGB resembled the Montparnasse of half a century earlier.
그 시절은 위험했고, 자극적이었으며, 이미 밝혀진바 오늘날의 대중문화를 낳은 위대한 자양분이었습니다.
“Ork Records: New York, New York” includes photographs, fliers, notes and 49 songs recorded by the company, which was in business for only five years.
Those years were dangerous, electric and, as it turns out, great fodder for today’s pop culture.
The third CBGB Music and Film Festival will take place Oct. 8-12 in Manhattan and Brooklyn.
Many of my friends didn’t like punk. But to me it reinvented rebellion, laughed at corporate rock and embodied why we had become fans, and players.
With the release of a new film about the legendary club CBGB, it’s a chance to look at how the big screen does punk. Tell us your favorite film about the era.
By The New York Times
“CBGB” is an elegy to that defunct nightclub in the East Village, and its owner and presiding spirit, Hillel Kristal.
The film “CBGB” attempts to recreate the days of the Bowery’s premier punk rock club. But not all of the nightspot’s former habitués endorse it.
My Morning Jacket, the Wallflowers and Grizzly Bear will perform in Times Square on Oct. 12 as part of the festival’s expanded second year.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
At “Punk: Chaos to Couture,” the new fashion exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, visitors are immediately confronted with a re-creation of a filthy restroom of CBGB.
There are some great books on the history of punk, but now there’s a history of Punk, the loudmouthed, comic-stripped magazine that helped define the scene in New York in the mid-1970s.
The promoters of the CBGB music festival have joined with Amnesty International to raise funds for the members of Pussy Riot, who are on trial in Moscow.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
Scenes from the music festival in New York.
CBGB closed in 2006, but that club’s legacy remains, with more than 300 bands appearing in the 2012 festival named for it.
At least one person was stabbed at Webster Hall and another was bitten, forcing promoters to cancel a show that was part of the CBGB Music Festival.
Superchunk, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah and the Hold Steady are among the groups who will play a free concert in Times Square on Saturday afternoon.
By James McKinley, Jr.
Cloud Nothings, Pains of Being Pure at Heart and War on Drugs are among the bands who will participate in the first CBGB music festival this summer, organizers said on Tuesday.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
Alan Rickman will portray play Hilly Kristal, the iconoclastic bearded, flannel-wearing founder of the famous East Village punk-rock club CBGB, in a biographical film to be shot this summer.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
After years of legal disputes, a new group of owners wants to revive CBGB with a summer festival and a new location.
By James C. McKinley Jr. and Stephen Rex Brown
A small punk bar with bathrooms unfit for a crack house, Mars Bar became a crucible of a particular stream of East Village art.
The battle for CBGB is over. Two years ago, shortly after the death of Hilly Kristal, the club’s founder, his former wife, Karen Kristal, filed suit against his estate. She said that she was the rightful owner of the business, but had been tricked into signing it over to Mr. Kristal, who then sold the company for $3.5 million and left most of his estate to their daughter, Lisa Kristal Burgman. (The club made little profit, but the CBGB trademark brought in millions from T-shirts and other memorabilia.) A settlement in the suit, which had been filed in Surrogate’s Court in Manhattan, was reached on June 3, lawyers for both sides of the case said on Thursday, but the terms were not disclosed. CBGB opened in 1973 and closed in 2006 after a long dispute with its landlord over unpaid rent.
New films by Conor McPherson and Marshall Curry and a documentary about the New York rock club CBGB are among the features that the 2009 Tribeca Film Festival announced for its World Narrative, World Documentary Feature and Discovery categories. Mr. McPherson, the playwright of “The Seafarer” and “Shining City,” is the writer and director of “The Eclipse,” a film about a widower who notices strange phenomena in his house. Mr. Curry, whose documentary “Street Fight,” about Cory Booker’s run for mayor of Newark, was nominated for an Academy Award in 2005, is the director of “Racing Dreams,” about the national go-kart racing championships. Also on the lineup is “Burning Down the House: The Story of CBGB,” about the famous East Village performance space and its battle to remain open. The Tribeca Film Festival runs from April 22 to May 3.
Compiled by Dave Itzkoff
Just as CBGB is getting its due alongside John Lennon’s piano and Jimi Hendrix’s guitar, its ownership and legacy are being challenged by a lawsuit that has riven the family of its proprietor, Hilly Kristal, who died last year.
Much of what is left of the legendary rock club is in boxes in a storage unit in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
Extra Place, a tiny street in the East Village best known as the setting for the cover of a Ramone’s album, has its admirers, including the developer Avalon Bay.
John Varvatos, two-time winner of Menswear Designer of the Year, recently opened a clothing and lifestyle boutique on the site of the dearly departed CBGB’s.
Steve Garrin is a behind-the-scenes maestro of New York’s entertainment industry, with a client list that reads as if he played grab bag at a talent agency party.
Meshell Ndegeocello’s lyrics muse on large concepts — faith, science, politics and above all, desire — as private struggles, while her music constantly transforms itself.
For more than 30 years, Debbie Harry has carved a path of rebellious downtown cool, providing a template for other female rockers.
Hilly Kristal  founded CBGB, the Bowery bar that became the cradle of New York punk and art-rock in the 1970s.
The opening of the Music Hall of Williamsburg is the latest development in a building spree that has radically changed the live-music landscape of New York over the last few years.
Mr. Kristal founded CBGB, the Bowery bar that was the cradle of punk- and art-rock in New York in the 1970s.
After Patti Smith played her last set at CBGB in October, on the night the punk-rock temple closed its doors for good, she handed out small black buttons to some of the fans who had come to bear witness to the passing of a legend.
Article on new retail space on St Marks Place in Manhattan that sells memorabilia from now-shuttered CBGB nightclub; owner Hilly Kristal says store is flagship of effort to make money and experiment with brand while working to reopen club, probably in Las Vegas; photo (M)
Live rock scene in New York is continuing on despite closing of legendary club CBGB; at least five major performance spaces are set to open in next few months, giving city's rock infrastructure its most substantial expansion in years; music venues in Manhattan and Brooklyn noted; list of upcoming concerts; map; photos (M)
CBGB may be gone, but New York’s rock scene, ever scrappy and vibrant, is alive and well.
Scene at closed Bowery rock club CBGB described as owner Hilly Kristal comments on what may be next; club's contents are to be packed for possible shipment to new space in Las Vegas; some items may be auctioned on eBay; photo (M)
THE crowds of well-wishers and mourners were gone last week from CBGB, the Bowery rock club, in the days after its final night in business. Outside, there were the occasional curiosity seekers peering through the window, and inside, there was Hilly Kristal, the club’s 75-year-old owner, slouched at his desk by the front door fielding phone calls, surrounded by a coterie of employees.
New York City rock club CBGB hosts farewell concert before permanently closing its doors; show featured Patti Smith performing her own material and songs by other bands that frequented CBGB, with help of Red Hot Chili Peppers bassist Flea and Television guitarist Richard Lloyd; history of club recalled; photos (M)
Three letters respond to closing of East Village club CBGB; David Crane, prompted by Oct 14 Richard Hell Op-Ed article, recalls playing in club when he was member of small band; Thomas Volkema bids good riddance to club, calling atmosphere rude; Russell Marlow says New Yorkers should celebrate life of CBGB's rather than mourn its demise (Oct 16 article); photo
New York City Mayor Michael R Bloomberg expresses sadness about closing of legendary rock club CBGB (S)
Mayor bids goodbye to CBGB, Madonna’s new child leaves Malawi, second coming of Menudo, a season without Harold Pinter and more culture news.
By Lawrence Van Gelder
The wonder is not why CBGB closed. It’s that it lasted so long.
Fabled New York City rock club CBGB closes doors after protracted battle with nonprofit landlord Bowery Residents' Committee; Patti Smith plays at last concert; founder Hilly Kristal considers plan to move club to Las Vegas; photos (M)
Sunday night was the last concert at CBGB, the famously crumbling rock club that has been in continuous, loud operation since December 1973.
The famed East Village rock club closed for good after a prolonged demise.
Musician Richard Hell Op-Ed article notes that CBGB, famous rock 'n' roll club on Bowery, is going to be shut down and reconstructed as exhibit in Las Vegas; drawing (M)
CBGB’s was like a big playhouse, site of conspiracies, orgies, delirium, refuge, boredom, meanness, jealousy, kindness, but most of all youth.
Officer in Mel Gibson case is investigated, New Jersey Orchestra agrees to a new contract, Debbie Harry, Patti Smith and others will play CBGB one last time and more culture news.
Compiled by Steven McElroy
CBGB, the Bowery rock club that has been a staple of the New York music scene for more than 30 years, will close next year, ending a protracted real estate dispute with its landlord.     The club reached a deal with the Bowery Residents' Committee, a nonprofit organization that helps the homeless and has a long-term lease on the property, to remain at 313 and 315 Bowery through Oct. 31, both sides announced.
Ever since it was announced that CBGB might lose its lease and close its doors on the Bowery, a number of people have rushed to defend the club's merits, praising the sound system, the slanted stage, the iconoclastic owner, the long list of bands whose careers began there. But a significant architectural feature has been forgotten in all the tributes -- namely, the club's bathrooms, which David Byrne once described as ''legendarily nasty.''      Perhaps he was referring to the dungeon-like brick walls covered in graffiti, band stickers and bodily fluids. Or the stalls without doors, removing any notion of modesty. Or perhaps he was reflecting on the period when misguided clubgoers, finding themselves in the ''home of punk rock,'' took it upon themselves to blow up the toilets.
The club CBGB, facing eviction after its lease expires at midnight tonight, gained an unexpected ally yesterday in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who called the East Village showcase for stage-diving, youthful angst and obscenity-laced punk rock songs ''a great New York City institution.''     Mr. Bloomberg offered the city's help in negotiating a new lease. If that fails, and CBGB is forced out of its space at 313 and 315 Bowery, ''we will try to find another location,'' the mayor said.
Arts, Briefly column; Bowery Residents' Committee executive director Muzzy Rosenblatt says he will appeal judge's decision in favor of legendary Bowery rock club CBGB (S)
Hilly Kristal, founder of landmark Bowery rock club CBGB, is at first optimistic then turns sour, saying he is sure his landlord, nonprofit Bowery Residents' Committee, wants him evicted when lease expires at end of month; Kristal says he may move club to Las Vegas; Steven Van Zandt of E Street Band and The Sopranos is leading celebrity volunteer effort to save club, which may include rally at Washington Square Park; photos (M)
Arts, Briefly column; CBGB rock club on Bowery, which faces possible eviction when lease expires at end of August, will hold monthlong series of benefit concerts and auction on eBay of rock memorabilia to support its campaign to remain in place; photo (S)
Editors' Note: Mar 7 article on dispute between CBGB nightclub and its landlord, Bowery Residents' Committee, should have disclosed that Times arts reporter Julie Salamon is chairwoman of committee, nonprofit group that helps homeless
Bowery Residents' Committee, which houses 175 homeless people in floors above CBGB nightclub and which is still owed $75,000 of $300,000 in back rent by club, reportedly could begin eviction proceedings; two have been in and out of court for much of last four years and court documents show club has not fully abided by 2001 monthly payment plan; photo (M)
Several rock clubs in East Village and on Lower East Side are slated to close; CBGB in Bowery reportedly faces near doubling of rent in August, to $40,000 a month; Luna Lounge will close at end of month because building is being demolished; Fez has no plans to reopen after it closes in mid-March for building renovation (M)
Anemona Hartocollis Coping column describes Sweet 16 party at club CBGB attended by some female survivors of infamous 1970's punk rock era; drawing (M)
By Anemona Hartocollis
It was a horrible mistake, one that was quickly corrected. So said CBGB.   A manager at the famed East Village rock club said she unwittingly booked a Neo-Nazi heavy metal band, New Minority, then abruptly canceled the group's appearance -- scheduled for Wednesday night, the end of Yom Kippur -- after learning that it espoused hatred.
SCENES blossom and wither, stride forward and then stumble, and you never know for sure how real they are -- great music objectively reported -- or how much they are the product of scene members' subjective enthusiasms.    CBGB, which is celebrating its 20th anniversary this month, was a true scene in the mid-1970's, with all the sweaty interaction that that long and narrow club compelled. Just going to the bathroom, down long and dingy stairs behind the stage to the left, was an invitation to encounter every sort of downtown denizen and substance consumption known to man (and woman) at the time. Musicians mingled with groupies and fans and one another; writers schmoozed with each other and with musicians; fights broke out and friendships formed.
Happy Birthday, CBGB   CBGB, the humble East Village bar that became the cradle of punk-rock and the stuff of legends, is celebrating its 20th anniversary this month with a concert series that is to feature more than 100 bands, including Dinosaur Jr., Helmet, Jesus Lizard, Lemonheads, Luna, Meat Puppets, Pere Ubu, Smithereens, Sonic Youth and They Might Be Giants.   Such bands as Talking Heads, Television and the Patti Smith Group have held forth at this rock-music landmark, which is located where the Bowery meets Bleecker Street, at 315 Bowery. The club's founder and owner, Hilly Kristal, credits its beginnings in an era of disco and cover bands, and its survival partly to the fact that "we aren't trendy." That might be considered an understatement to anyone who has been to the place, whose decor amounts to generations of graffiti.
LAST Sunday, after "The Third Seder," a night of performance art and music at La Mama Experimental Theater Club on East Fourth Street, Neil Goldberg, an artist, was dismantling his Wall of Matzoh and giving it to members of the audience. "Help partake of the amazing wall of matzohs," he was saying, as the Klezmatics, a group that calls itself "a Yiddish/ World Beat/Fusion Band," played.   The matzohs are so fragile, he usually treats them with epoxy, said Mr. Goldberg, who lives on the Lower East Side and has created a series of matzoh sculptures. "But I thought it would be nice for people to be able to eat them tonight," he said.
Calm and clear-eyed, serene as the Mona Lisa, dressed in black with her black hair pulled back, Polly J. Harvey gazed from the stage of CBGB on Wednesday night. She ticked off quiet, steady guitar chords, in unison with a simple drumbeat from Robert Ellis, and began to sing without raising her voice. "Tie yourself to me," she intoned. "You're not rid of me."    Her tone grew tremulous -- "I beg you . . . Don't leave me" -- and then, suddenly, the band was slamming out power chords and Ms. Harvey, her voice adamantine with pain and rage, warned, "I'll make you lick my injuries," and, "Don't do me so." Moments later, the music was quiet again, but Ms. Harvey had shown that affection can turn to fury in an instant.
The Disposable Heroes of Hiphoprisy aren't just a band -- they're a coalition. At C.B.G.B. on Wednesday night, the group included a rapper who sometimes sang, a drummer, a guitarist with jazz leanings, a keyboardist who also slammed metal on metal like an industrial rocker, and an offstage crew that played backup tapes and projected supertitles above the stage.    As the lineup suggests, the band has broad ambitions. Michael Franti, its vocalist, looks to both Chuck D. of Public Enemy and the songwriter Gil Scott-Heron as models, delivering mid-tempo raps and ballads. Rono Tse, on keyboards, and Mr. Franti were both members of the Beatnigs, a well-regarded San Francisco Bay Area band.
LEAD: A quadruple bill tonight at CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street (982-4052), will include Wiseblood, Half Japanese, Mo Tucker with Jad Fair and Random Facts. Music begins about 10 P.M.; for exact set times, call the club. Tickets are $8.
LEAD: Nuance served brute force Wednesday night at CBGB, in a quadruple bill of noise-rock instrumentals for power trios and - a rare lineup indeed at CBGB - a string quartet. The evening's main composer was Elliott Sharp, who supplied the music for Semantics, a trio, and for one of two sets by the Soldier String Quartet.
LEAD: Carmaig de Forest, a singer-songwriter from San Francisco who was at CBGB on Wednesday and has been performing elsewhere around town, has a skinhead haircut, wears jeans that are ripped at the knee, and plays the ukulele. His recent album was produced by Alex Chilton, and his ad hoc backup band at CBGB included Will Rigby of the dB's on drums, Gordon Gano of the Violent Femmes on guitar, and Tony M
LEAD: For stomping, chattering, guitar-driven funk, it's hard to beat the Royal Crescent Mob, the four-man band from Columbus, Ohio, that played CBGB on Wednesday. The band is steeped in James Brown and the Ohio Players, with a dash of George Clinton's P-Funk; now and then, it moves toward heavy-metal. And while the band kicks along, David
LEAD: ''THE next song, 'Scratch,' requires four alligator clips, a bolt, a comb and a guitar slide to make it sound just right,'' Roger Miller said Wednesday night at CBGB. He calmly placed those objects on the strings of a Yamaha electric grand piano and -using reverberation and distortion devices, a synthesizer and a tape-loop echo-repeat system - played another plinking, clanking, crunching, howling song.
LEAD: A night of instrumental rock and improvisation by Peter Gordon and the Love of Life Orchestra, Zozobra, No Safety and Dr. Nerve is to take place tomorrow at CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street (982-4052), beginning at approximately 10 P.M. Tickets are $8; for exact set times, call the club.
EIGHTEEN bands, standard-bearers for a rock underground that stretches from New York to California and Australia to Britain, are performing this weekend at two local clubs -CBGB in Manhattan and Maxwell's in Hoboken, N.J. Most of the bands have international reputations; none of them record for Warner Brothers, CBS or any of the other entertainment conglomerates. Instead, they are the pride and joy of small record labels, run by fans or musicians.   ''We don't see ourselves as an alternative to the major labels, and no way do we want to become a major label,'' says Gerard Cosloy of Homestead Records on Long Island, which is presenting a ''Homestead Night'' at CBGB on Sunday. ''We just try to differentiate between good music and bad music, and to record bands that are good.''
The songwriter Alex Chilton will perform tonight at CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street, on a quadruple bill that begins at approximately 10 o'clock. Tickets are $8; for exact set times, the number is 982-4052.
Four new rock bands will perform today at CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street (982-4052). The music will begin at 10:30 with Yo La Tengo, Antietam will perform at midnight, the Volcano Suns at 1 A.M. and the Scene Is Now at 2 A.M.; tickets are $7.
Mofungo, a Lower East Side avant-rock band, will perform tomorrow at CBGB, 315 Bowery, at Bleecker Street (982-4052). The band Fish and Roses will open at 10 P.M.; tickets are $6.