article_id: nyt_111
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/bill-clinton?page=7
title: Bill Clinton
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The House Oversight Committee released testimonies from former President Bill Clinton and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton in the investigation into Jeffrey Epstein, the convicted sex offender.
Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was defiant. Former President Bill Clinton spoke of President Trump’s ties to Epstein. A Republican raised a conspiracy theory.
By Annie Karni and Michael Gold
Former President Bill Clinton told members of the House Oversight Committee in a closed-door deposition that he “saw nothing” and had done nothing wrong when he associated with Jeffrey Epstein decades ago.
Los republicanos parecían ansiosos por presionar al expresidente. Los demócratas dijeron que esperaban utilizar su comparecencia como precedente para exigir que el presidente Trump también responda.
The former president sat for hours of questioning by members of both parties, in an appearance that Democrats signaled they would use as a precedent to force President Trump to do the same.
The former first lady, senator and secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, told congressional members in a closed-door deposition that she had no dealings with Jeffrey Epstein.
After resisting testifying for months, the former secretary of state entered the session defiant, and grew irate after a Republican leaked a photo from inside the room.
La ex primera dama, senadora y secretaria de Estado no tuvo ningún trato con Jeffrey Epstein, pero una vez más se ve presionada a responder por las acciones y relaciones de su esposo.
The former first lady, senator and secretary of state had no dealings with Jeffrey Epstein but is once again under pressure to answer for the actions and relationships of her husband.
Correos y documentos del caso Epstein detallan la red de obsequios y oportunidades que utilizaba para atraer a figuras influyentes; un juego de estatus y lealtades transaccionales.
La excompañera de Jeffrey Epstein ayudó a asesorar en el lanzamiento de la Iniciativa Global Clinton y organizó su financiamiento con un millón de dólares, según correos electrónicos.
Jeffrey Epstein’s longtime companion helped advise on the kickoff of the Clinton Global Initiative and arranged for $1 million in funding for it, emails show.
He knew how to give self-important people what they thought they deserved.
The Republican chairman’s successful targeting of a former president who faces no charge of wrongdoing was the sort of tactic typical in an autocracy where leaders fear being jailed when they are out of power.
Bill and Hillary Clinton agreed to be deposed this month by an investigative panel but requested that it be in public, a request that the Republican chairman ignored.
El expresidente Bill Clinton y la exsecretaria de Estado Hillary Clinton accedieron a declarar tras haberse resistido por semanas, días antes de que la Cámara de Representantes votara a favor de declararlos en desacato.
Plus, a conservative group plans an alternate Super Bowl halftime show.
By Tracy Mumford, Will Jarvis and Ian Stewart
Former President Bill Clinton and Hillary Clinton, the ex-secretary of state, agreed to depositions they had long resisted days before the House was to vote to hold them in contempt.
President Trump declared the awards ceremony “virtually unwatchable” and accused Mr. Noah of defamation over a joke he made that appeared to tie the president to Jeffrey Epstein.
A 21-page slide presentation summarized the agency’s investigations into Jeffrey Epstein.
By Jessica Silver-Greenberg, Matthew Goldstein and Steve Eder
As Democrats work to regain the public trust and to shed their image as the party of elites, they cannot be seen as treating elites in their party as above the law.
Plus, how A.I. is judging your résumé.
By Tracy Mumford, Will Jarvis and Ian Stewart
The votes by the Oversight panel were bipartisan, though many Democrats said the charges were extreme given Bill and Hillary Clinton’s willingness to answer questions.
The Republican chairman of the Oversight Committee refused an offer to interview the former president under oath, rejecting terms he said were unreasonable.
La pareja intensificó su batalla con el representante James Comer, presidente del Comité de Supervisión, quien dijo que presentaría una moción para acusarlos de desacato al Congreso.
Bill and Hillary Clinton wrote a lengthy letter to Representative James R. Comer of Kentucky, the Republican chairman of the Oversight Committee, refusing to testify in Congress.
Lawyers for Bill and Hillary Clinton wrote a letter to Representative James R. Comer of Kentucky, the Republican chairman of the Oversight Committee, on why the couple would not testify in the House’s Jeffrey Epstein investigation.
The couple escalated their battle with Representative James R. Comer, the chairman of the Oversight Committee, who said he would move to hold them in contempt of Congress.
The fight was supposed to be about releasing them. But the way it’s being done seems designed to obscure the truth.
Their silence contrasted with the uproar made over the weekend when the Justice Department’s first release focused on former President Bill Clinton.
The Justice Department initially removed, then restored, a photograph that included an image of President Trump, and issued a statement calling mentions of him “untrue and sensationalist claims.”
Durante años circularon rumores sobre el origen de su riqueza. Una investigación del Times revela sobre cómo un universitario que abandonó los estudios se abrió camino hasta la cúspide de las finanzas y la sociedad de EE. UU.
By David Enrich, Steve Eder, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Matthew Goldstein
The Republican-led Justice Department’s release of photos of the former president with Jeffrey Epstein will introduce yet another generation to his flaws and controversies.
Muchos de los documentos están ampliamente censurados, y rara vez se menciona al presidente Trump. La Casa Blanca también intentó sacar provecho político de la publicación de fotos de Bill Clinton.
The Justice Department came under scrutiny for its handling of the documents and deletions online of some material. It said it would not remove mentions of Donald Trump from the files as they are released.
By Alan Feuer and Devlin Barrett
The focus on a former president comes at a moment when Republicans have fought to shift public attention away from Mr. Epstein’s friendship with President Trump.
By Nicholas Confessore, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Katie Benner
During 11 interviews with Vanity Fair over President Trump’s first year back in office, Ms. Wiles, his chief of staff, opened up about the president, the people around him and their internal fights.
For years, rumors swirled about where his wealth came from. A Times investigation reveals the truth of how a college dropout clawed his way to the pinnacle of American finance and society.
By David Enrich, Steve Eder, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Matthew Goldstein
El representante James Comer ha amenazado con iniciar un procedimiento de desacato al Congreso contra Bill y Hillary Clinton si no comparecen en persona.
The columnist believes America’s real political contest is in the center.
By Bret Stephens, David Leonhardt and Jillian Weinberger
Bill and Hillary Clinton have repeatedly offered to provide sworn statements, but Representative James R. Comer has threatened to hold them in contempt of Congress if they fail to appear.
Bill and Hillary Clinton’s lawyer writes a letter on Oct. 6 to the House Oversight Committee opposing their live testimony regarding the Jeffrey Epstein investigation.
Bill and Hillary Clinton’s lawyer writes a letter on Nov. 3 to the House Oversight Committee opposing their live testimony regarding the Jeffrey Epstein investigation.
Bill and Hillary Clinton’s lawyer writes a letter on Dec. 10 to the House Oversight Committee opposing their live testimony regarding the Jeffrey Epstein investigation.
The images, released without context by Democrats on the House Oversight Committee, revealed little new about the deceased sex offender’s ties to prominent men in politics, entertainment and finance.
He had overseen high-profile cases as a private lawyer and a U.S. attorney in New York when he was named to examine the role of Bill and Hillary Clinton in a failed development venture.
By Joseph P. Fried and Clay Risen
“You need this renewal. You need new figures who are untouched, who were never part of these awful power games,” the columnist Lydia Polgreen argues.
By Lydia Polgreen, Molly Jong-Fast and Derek Arthur
President Trump ordered the Justice Department to investigate the dealings of Democrats with Jeffrey Epstein, after a week in which his own relationship with the convicted sex offender was in the spotlight.
By Erica L. Green, Glenn Thrush and Alan Feuer
Are we living through an A.I. bubble? Or is it all just vibes? Jason Furman, a contributing Opinion writer and an economist at the Harvard Kennedy School, tells Ross Douthat that while it’s hard to put a number on it, “there’s something enormous going on here.”
Can the U.S. economy thrive without a steady stream of immigration? This week on “Interesting Times,” Jason Furman, a contributing Times Opinion writer and an economist at the Harvard Kennedy School, tells Ross Douthat why he thinks our future “rises and falls with immigration.”
Hey, boomers! Younger Americans would like a word. We’ve noticed that many of you are pretty upset about the state of the nation. And we get it. We really do. But do you ever stop and ask yourselves how we got here?
By Emily Holzknecht and Binyamin Appelbaum
OpenAI is worth more than Goldman Sachs. Here’s what that means for the economy.
By Ross Douthat, Victoria Chamberlin and Sophia Alvarez Boyd
We’ve been here before.
Baby boomers had a good run. Now we’re all paying for it.
By Emily Holzknecht and Binyamin Appelbaum
Shutdowns are always unpleasant affairs. But President Trump has used his power in aggressive and strikingly personal ways.
Middle East peace may seem hopeless, but Northern Ireland shows that even the most intractable conflict can be resolved.
An influential lawyer, he negotiated blockbuster contracts for A-list clients, including the Clintons, the Obamas and the Bushes, while often acting as a political adviser.
By Alexandra Alter and Elizabeth A. Harris
Many presidents and vice presidents fall out by the end of their tenures, a fraught dynamic that goes back to the early days of the republic.
An essay series led by the archivist whom President Trump fired will feature voices from across the political spectrum, including those of George W. Bush and Barack Obama.
By Jennifer Schuessler
Why did the working class switch sides?
The Trump administration could update the Roadless Rule to permit temporary roads to allow for forest thinning.
The crisis has echoes of past humanitarian crises that left presidents wringing their hands over how to respond.
Los comentarios son parte de los esfuerzos del presidente Trump por distraer, negar y desviar la atención de su larga relación con Jeffrey Epstein.
The comments came as part of the president’s efforts to distract, deny and deflect from his long-running relationship with Jeffrey Epstein.
The former U.S. Labor Secretary on how complacency and corporate ties created a “bully in chief.”
No hace falta ser un teórico de la conspiración para tener preguntas.
You needn’t be a conspiracy theorist to have questions.
We look at the state of the Democratic Party.
The party’s last rebuilding effort took nearly a decade and followed debilitating ideological battles. Some in the party see it as a model, up to a point.
President Trump has moved aggressively to reopen long-settled issues and to dismantle long-established institutions as he tries to return to what he considers better times.