article_id: nyt_112
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7052546/2026/02/19/college-football-transfer-portal-recruiting-rankings/
title: Are transfer rankings more important than recruiting rankings? Portal mailbag
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Running back Roman Hemby, a transfer from Maryland, was a key part of Indiana's national title team. Kirby Lee / Imagn Images
While the transfer portal closed for business last month, you still have questions about how things shook out.
We’re happy to share our thoughts.
Note: Questions are lightly edited for length and clarity.
Every Power 4 school that made the 2025 College Football Playoff was in the top 25 of the 2025 transfer portal rankings. Because rankings for recruits reflect high school kids who may or may not play their first or even second year, are transfer rankings now a much more valuable “coin of the realm” in determining who might really do well in a given season? To be fair, here are the top 10 transfer portal teams in 2025 that didn’t make the CFP: LSU (No. 1), FSU (No. 6), Missouri (No. 7), Auburn (No. 8), UNC (No. 9), Kentucky (No. 10). — John H.
I hesitate to say transfer rankings are more valuable because, like recruiting rankings, they’re difficult to assess, and evaluating thousands of players in a matter of weeks is extremely difficult (whereas recruiting rankings are typically evaluations of players over years).
For now, I do think they might be more predictive in the short term because the teams at the top of the transfer rankings are usually bringing in more proven players who are known quantities in college football. It’s a lot easier to envision immediate success for someone like Sam Leavitt, who took Arizona State to the College Football Playoff in 2024, at LSU than it is for a five-star quarterback who is taking the starting job at a Big Ten school for the first time. We’ve already seen what Leavitt can do at a high level.
We’ll continue to learn, evolve and adapt transfer rankings based on the results we see on the field each year. What Indiana accomplished probably has front offices across the sport reconsidering their approach. Maybe it’s better to pursue experienced players, even if they came from a Group of 5 or FCS school, rather than young, inexperienced high-ceiling transfers. If another team wins a title or succeeds with a different strategy, it will bring out copycats for that as well.
And I still believe that living in the portal every year is a difficult task. It puts your team and roster on a roller coaster that’s hard to get off of. Ideally, programs still want to build a talent base through recruiting, then acquire impact players out of the portal to fill needs or elevate talent at positions they feel can be improved.
Which teams did the best at retaining roster talent? — Zygmund K.
For this exercise, we focused on looking at how many starters a team lost. Not to say losing depth is insignificant, but losing starters feels like a reasonable way of measuring this.
Here’s a look at teams that lost two or fewer scholarship players via the portal who started at least six games in 2025 (data courtesy of SportSource Analytics, Tracking Football and Pro Football Focus):
Should there be some “compensatory relief” system set up for schools that lose more than a certain number of players in one portal window? Curt Cignetti took 13 James Madison players with him to Indiana (in 2024). What if IU had to pay JMU some money for taking more than five or 10 players from one school? Would that help spread the transferring players out more evenly to more schools? Or even help them stay put? It doesn’t seem right that a coach can leave and then also take a bunch of players with him. — Charles C.
Yes, and many Group of 6 and FCS coaches would agree. A transfer fee, akin to what is seen in European soccer, would be widely welcomed because it helps the school that is losing the player, and I don’t think the richer schools would object to paying them, because the gap in roster budgets is so wide that the fees would be nominal for most Power 4 programs.
If, for example, a Power 4 program poached a star running back from a G6 school and had to pay a $100,000 or $250,000 transfer fee, that money would mean a lot to the school losing the back, because it could use that money to find a replacement or add/retain other players.
Writing buyouts into contracts, which more schools are doing, is one way to accomplish something similar. To do it sport-wide and codify it as a rule, it would probably need to be done by the College Sports Commission and agreed to by all of the participating schools or be part of some collective bargaining agreement, if the sport ever gets that far. Seems like we’re far away from either scenario at this time.
My issue is with the rankings themselves. How do you project G6 numbers to the P4? I’m not saying players can’t exceed expectations (see Trinidad Chambliss/Ahmad Hardy) but in the aggregate it’s mostly speculation. I know OU uses an internal grading system that does not account for star ratings assigned by recruiting services. After two to three years of significant snaps in college football, how they were rated out of high school is immaterial. Yet I still see “former five-star” in the portal ranking. It’s easy to say Sam Leavitt is the No. 1 portal addition but isn’t he limited/unavailable for spring practice? Was that factored into the ranking? — Shannon E.
Isn’t everything we “project” speculation? When dealing with a sport played primarily by 18-to-23-year-olds, nothing is a sure thing.
It’s hard to know how a player from a Group of 6 school will fare when he moves to a Power 4 program. For every Ahmad Hardy, there’s a Makhi Hughes who dominated the American but barely played at Oregon. We make our best guesses based on the available information: a player’s frame and physical traits, scheme fit and the coaching staff’s history of succeeding with transfers at his position.
I’m a believer that good football players are good football players and — as long as the necessary physical traits are there — succeeding when going from a league like the Sun Belt to the SEC is absolutely doable. It doesn’t mean I think all the good G6 players will become all-conference players at a P4 program, but I do feel safer in projecting success for a two-time all-conference player from a G6 school with 1,200 snaps as opposed to a former five-star who has played less than 200 in two years at a blue-blood program (again, if the physical traits are similar … I’m not under the impression that undersized players who might be 0.2 seconds slower are going to translate very well).
To your other queries: We use “former five-star” in most cases as context, not necessarily a major part of a player evaluation. However, if a former five-star is only one year removed from signing day, there’s obviously more room for projection/potential.
Injuries are considered, but they’re not cut-and-dried. A fully healthy Leavitt probably would have been No. 1 in our portal QB rankings rather than No. 3. Since he’s expected to be full-go by the time training camp rolls around, we largely based the evaluation on what we’ve seen from him when he is at full strength.
We’ve got recruiting rankings and now transfer portal rankings. Is the next step to have retention rankings? My alma mater is a lower/mid-tier P2 school. And finally, this year, for the first time, they didn’t lose talent like a G6 program. There were no big moves in the portal but just the fact that they kept their top players feels like a win. — Abala Shice
That has a bit of an old-school feel to it. Remember when college football magazines used to publish team profiles with “returning starters” and “returning lettermen?” That information is still valuable, maybe even more so in the current era.
While I’m not sure that we’ll ever get to a place where we have “retention rankings,” I do think it’s a worthy exercise to examine how experienced all the teams are, based on what they return combined with the experience they brought in via the transfer portal. Perhaps it’s a combination of returning production with inherited production from transfers. It’s something I’d love to take a stab at this offseason.
Recently, North Texas and Tulsa produced a terrific, simplified look at what their roster breakdowns look like for 2026. I think roster glances like this one are invaluable for folks following and trying to keep track of all the movement.
Want to dive deep into the 2026 @MeanGreenFB roster, including a positional breakdown like the one below?
Check out a the full roster deep dive: https://t.co/byfZNnVkpd #GMG 🦅 https://t.co/2nFYcFmlLd pic.twitter.com/PLccoFaYo9
— Doug Waters (@DougWatersUNT) January 28, 2026
Spring Roster. Proud of retainment and 31 players from our home state. Will be adding more high school signees in May. 🌀 pic.twitter.com/glsJLNJxUN
— Tre Lamb (@CoachTreLamb9) January 30, 2026
As a fan of an FCS program (Go UNI Panthers!) I’m wondering, what can be done to retain players at the FCS level in the era of the transfer portal? — Anonymous U.
The strategy is similar to any program that has fewer resources than others: Establish a culture that players enjoy being a part of, pour into the development of those players and try to be proactive in taking care of them to show them that they’re valued.
Does an FCS program have a hope of retaining a player who is targeted by a Power 4 school that can outspend that FCS school? Probably not. But there are levels to it. Coaches may try to suss out whether the Power 4 program is targeting that player to be a starter or simply be a depth option. If it’s the latter, the FCS coach will undoubtedly try to sell the idea of guaranteed playing time and the opportunity to be a star there as opposed to getting lost on the bench at a higher level.
Being proactive is important. If a team knows a player is likely to be a target, it may try to give him more money or renegotiate his deal to show in good faith that it is trying to take care of him. Of course, at some point, the money from other interested schools may become unrealistic for the FCS school to match. There’s nothing that can be done about that.
By and large, I don’t believe players want to change schools as often as they do or leave places where they’re in a good situation. That’s why retaining players is usually cheaper, because they often want to stay where they are. Still, if the money is life-changing, most coaches acknowledge that you just pat ’em on the back, say thanks for everything and wish them the best.
And I know some FCS coaches, while they don’t love losing players, are embracing the silver lining to it. If many of their players are poached by Power 4 programs, it’s a selling point to recruits, as if to say: “Hey, come here, play early and dominate and then you can transfer and get paid in a year or two.” In some ways, FCS schools feed FBS programs the way junior colleges once did.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Sam Khan Jr. is a senior writer for The Athletic covering college football and recruiting primarily in Texas. Previously, he spent eight years covering college sports at ESPN.com and seven years as a sports reporter at the Houston Chronicle. A native Houstonian, Sam graduated from the University of Houston. Follow Sam on Twitter @ skhanjr