article_id: nyt_116
url: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2026/02/20/briefing/epstein-files-iran-jesse-jackson-news-quiz.html
title: The New York Times News Quiz, Feb. 20, 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Did you follow the news this week? Take our quiz to see how well you stack up with other Times readers.
The U.S. military has moved dozens of fighter jets and two aircraft carrier strike groups into position for a possible attack on which country?
A high-profile person was arrested this week in connection with his ties to Jeffrey Epstein. Who?
The former Prince Andrew
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, the nation’s most influential Black political leader in the period between the civil rights movement and the Obama era, died this week at 84. In which two elections did he run for president?
An avalanche, the deadliest in modern California history, occurred near which site this week?
With fireworks, lion dancing, temple visits and even robots, more than a billion people across Asia and around the world welcomed the Lunar New Year. This year is the year of the:
The Trump administration must temporarily restore displays about slavery at a historic site connected to George Washington, a federal judge ruled. In her decision, the judge compared it to government overreach in which dystopian novel?
Anthony Burgess’s “A Clockwork Orange”
Ray Bradbury’s “Fahrenheit 451”
Margaret Atwood’s “The Handmaid’s Tale”
George Orwell’s “1984”
Suzanne Collins’s “The Hunger Games”
One of the largest sewage spills in the nation’s history began last month in which river?
Stephen Colbert said on his late-night show that CBS had barred him from airing an interview with which Democratic candidate for the Senate?
Mikaela Shiffrin took home her first gold medal at the Olympics since 2018. Which event did she win?
How many people have won gold medals — in different sports — at both the Winter and Summer Olympics?
A New Zealand judge, sentencing a woman who pleaded guilty to arson, questioned the defendant’s sincerity after discovering what?
Her use of artificial intelligence for her apology letters
Her relationship with a jury member
Her social media presence
Her mental health history
Her personal connection to the victim
Tom Wright-Piersanti, Charlotte Dulany and the staff of the Morning newsletter compiled this week’s quiz.
An earlier version of this quiz misstated the gender of the judge who ordered the Trump administration to restore displays about the history of slavery. She is a woman, not a man.