article_id: nyt_120
url: https://www.nytimes.com/column/anatomy-of-a-scene
title: Anatomy of a Scene
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
‘The Secret Agent’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Kleber Mendonça Filho narrates an ensemble sequence from his film, which is nominated for best picture.
‘Wuthering Heights’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director and screenwriter Emerald Fennell narrates a sequence from her film featuring Margot Robbie, Shazad Latif, Alison Oliver and Hong Chau.
‘Marty Supreme’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Josh Safdie narrates a sequence from his film, nominated for nine Oscars and featuring Timothée Chalamet and Gwyneth Paltrow.
‘Avatar: Fire and Ash’ | Anatomy of a Scene
James Cameron narrates a sequence from his film.
‘Wake Up Dead Man’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The writer and director Rian Johnson narrates a sequence from his film.
‘Wicked: For Good’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Jon M. Chu narrates a sequence from his film featuring Cynthia Erivo, Ariana Grande and Jeff Goldblum.
‘Frankenstein’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Guillermo del Toro narrates a sequence from his film, starring “Oscar Isaac.”
‘A House of Dynamite’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Kathryn Bigelow narrates a tense sequence from her film, in which a ballistic missile is headed for the United States.
‘Springsteen: Deliver Me From Nowhere’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Scott Cooper narrates a sequence from his film, featuring Jeremy Allen White playing Bruce Springsteen.
‘Anora’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The writer, director and editor Sean Baker narrates a sequence from his comedy featuring Mikey Madison and Mark Eydelshteyn.
‘Oppenheimer’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The writer and director Christopher Nolan narrates the opening sequence from the film, starring Cillian Murphy.
‘Everything Everywhere All at Once’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert narrate a sequence from their film starring Michelle Yeoh and Ke Huy Quan.
‘Nomadland’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a scene from her movie featuring Frances McDormand and David Strathairn.
‘Parasite' | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Bong Joon Ho narrates a sequence from his film.
‘Nope’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Jordan Peele narrates a sequence from “Nope,” starring Daniel Kaluuya.
‘Candyman’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Nia DaCosta narrates a haunting sequence from her film that uses shadow puppetry.
‘Last Night in Soho’ | Anatomy of a Scene
The director Edgar Wright narrates a sequence from his film featuring Anya Taylor-Joy and Thomasin McKenzie.
‘Us’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Jordan Peele narrates a sequence from his film.
‘The Curse of La Llorona’ | Anatomy of a Scene
Michael Chaves narrates a sequence from the thriller.
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a sequence from her film featuring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal. The movie is nominated for eight Oscars, including best picture.
The director Clint Bentley discusses the conclusion to his film, which stars Joel Edgerton and is an Oscar nominee for best picture.
The director Joachim Trier narrates a theatrical sequence from his film, nominated for nine Academy Awards, including best picture.
Kleber Mendonça Filho narrates a sequence from his Oscar-nominated film, starring Wagner Moura.
The screenwriter and director Emerald Fennell narrates a sequence from her film.
The director Josh Safdie discusses a table tennis moment from his film, featuring Chalamet, Gwyneth Paltrow and Geza Rohrig.
James Cameron narrates a sequence from his film, featuring Oona Chaplin and Stephen Lang.
The writer and director Rian Johnson narrates a sequence from his film.
The director Jon M. Chu narrates a sequence from his film featuring Ariana Grande, Cynthia Erivo and Jeff Goldblum performing the song “Wonderful.”
The director Guillermo del Toro narrates a sequence in which Dr. Victor Frankenstein presents his findings at a disciplinary tribunal.