article_id: nyt_122
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/podcast/336-pablo-torre-finds-out/episode-78/
title: Pablo Torre Finds Out
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Follow Pablo down the rabbit hole, well beyond the game — every Tuesday, Thursday and Friday — on his award-winning podcast/TV show. You’ll get a deep-dive "talkumentary" episode, reported by Pablo and Curiosity Correspondents like Emmy-winning comedian Wyatt Cenac and Oscar-winning director Ezra Edelman, answering urgent questions such as: Are you smarter than an NFL quarterback? Does Giannis... more
Share & Bubble & Tell with Mina Kimes and Derek Thompson
Is A.I. gonna boom, bust or just become Excel? And how screwed are we either way? Plus: Peyton Manning, Lamar Jackson, Geraldo Rivera's vault, a young Tim Pawlenty, vibe-coding NFL scouts... and Filipino Jell-O. 

Further content:

• "A.I. as Normal... more
The Big Gay Myth of Masculinity in Sports, with Mississippi's Own Jay Jurden
Sports and comedy are America's prisms for progress, allegedly. But this queer comedian from SEC football country can smell the lies. In the locker rooms of the NFL and the NBA. In the homoeroticism of Joe Rogan's world. And in the boxes of manliness we put up... more
Roy Wood Jr. Will Not Let This Interview Go Viral
America's podcast guest is a little burned-out. And yet the do-it-all comedian turned method unc is also a bard of modern content creation. So Roy Wood Jr. sits down with Pablo, on-stage at On Air Fest, to make sense of working under a hostile merger, while... more
We Investigated the Unnamed Player in the NBA Gambling Scandal
As Terry Rozier and his betting co-defendants return to court, Pablo Torre spans the nether regions of the basketball internet to reveal the player who connects government clues to red flags... and the NBA's worst nightmare. Previously on PTFO: • Part One: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c4u9--GM9to • Part Two: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xhp4XgK5Gk4 • Subscribe to Pablo's newsletter for exclusive access, documents and invites: https://www.pablo.show/ (Pablo Torre Finds Out is independently produced by Meadowlark Media and distributed by The Athletic. The views, research and reporting expressed in this episode are solely those of Pablo Torre Finds Out and do not reflect the work or editorial input of The Athletic or its journalists.) Hosted on Acast. See https://acast.com/privacy for more information.
Share & Free Skate & Tell with Katie Nolan and Michael Cruz Kayne
Did the Olympics just restore our faith in humanity? Even though America is still the bad guy? Even though penis injections? And even if we think A.I. might just be 60 Filipino guys? Plus: Greased Lightnin', flop sweat, deposition water bottles, the Waymo of... more
The Sporting Class: Corrupt Union Bosses, the Dark Arts of Ownership & NBA Draft Abolition
Is the MLBPA screwed because its (outgoing) leader allegedly had an affair with his sister-in-law? Is a salary cap a red herring? How much does winning a Super Bowl boost the valuation of the Seahawks? And can we ever stop tanking? John Skipper and David... more
One-on-One: The Untold Story of the Game That Made Magic
It was a pickup game for the ages. Finally, former Miami Heat center — and current DJ — Rony Seikaly opens up to correspondent Foster Kamer about his shocking decision to do what nobody in the NBA would, in the midst of HIV/AIDS paranoia. And how Seikaly was... more
He Finds Music Stars. Now He's Helping Us Save the Life of a Wrongfully Convicted Man
He used his instinctual superpower to sign an all-star roster of everyone from Stone Temple Pilots and Katy Perry to, yes, Kid Rock. Now, record executive Jason Flom (with a little help from the spirit of Muhammad Ali) is performing a different kind of... more
Share & Bezos & Tell with Ezra Edelman and David Remnick
What does the death of The Washington Post sports section mean for the future of sports, journalism and propaganda? Was "Melania" a movie — or crypto? And how does LeBron guarantee his story now? Plus: Tony Kornheiser, Paul Thomas Anderson, Nuke LaLoosh, New... more
"You're Gonna Get Me In Huge Trouble": Adam Friedland Is a League Source Now
The alleged Jon Stewart of his generation steps down from his YouTube throne and into our studio to discuss what LeBron's agent taught him; why the hell Pablo watched the Super Bowl with socialists; how it felt to audition for the role of SBF; and what PTFO... more
Uncle Dennis, Ballmer's $50 Million Sprint and the Side Deal That Wouldn't Die: Kawhi-Gate, Part VIII
As the Clippers host NBA All-Star Weekend, Pablo's "thorough due diligence" leads down a trail of LLCs and lawsuits that Kawhi Leonard and the richest owner in sports probably don't want you to know about. David Samson and Amin Elhassan return with a new... more
Sir Mix-a-Lot Finds Out
He is a Seattle sports legend. Also: butts. At 62 years young, the rapper reveals how a Super Bowl ad inspired "Baby Got Back," why he was live-tweeting a Seahawks comeback at 80 miles an hour... and what happened to that viral lady grinding with him at the... more
We Visited Death Row for the Super Bowl. You Can Help Save This Fan's Life.
A wrongfully convicted football fan is running out of time. So Pablo travels from the free world to Texas, to sit with Charles Flores for the one hour a day when he's not in solitary confinement. To learn what it feels like to watch the NFL through the bars of... more
Reveal: Bad Bunny, Billionaires, and the Business of Sports
More To The Story: This weekend, American football fans will be glued to their TVs to watch the New England Patriots play the Seattle Seahawks in the Super Bowl. From the NCAA to the NFL, sports are a dominant aspect of American culture. But the sports... more
The Prop-Betification of Everything, with the Forefather of Prediction Markets
He is the accidental creator of a phenomenon eating our world and wallets alive. So how does James Surowiecki feel about Kalshi, Polymarket and the wisdom of the crowd, now that even the market for a missile launch can be manipulated? On the eve of the Super... more
Share & Tell-ichick (Super Bowl Edition) with Mina Kimes and Dan Le Batard
Who gets to take pride in football, even (and especially) if Sam Darnold is your quarterback? Who gets to lock the gates on excellence, even if you're snubbing Bill Belichick? Did Tom Brady only get better in the booth... because he couldn't get much worse?... more
The Sporting Class: All the President's Grizzly Men
What does being Robert Pera's "co-owner" even mean? Why can't a sports executive wear his team's uniform? And what do the layoffs at The Washington Post and CBS News suggest about the business of journalism? Former Marlins president David Samson joins Pablo,... more
Exclusive: The Invisible NBA Owner and "Crimes Against Humanity"
A dunking tech bro in Memphis. A drone massacre in Ukraine. How did America's backyard beams end up in Putin's network of underground buyers? And how on Earth do Ja Morant, Justin Timberlake, Kevin Hart and "The Grindfather" get us to an illegal trade war?... more
A message from The Athletic
A message regarding changes we're making to how this podcast sounds on The Athletic app.
National Treasure: The White House's Dirty Takeover of Public Golf Courses
Golf can be for the people. But politics has come to the tee-boxes of D.C., as Trump literally takes a dump on public courses, with a gilded mission to re-shape the people's fairway — and a historically Black home of the sport — in his own image. Garrett... more
Chuck Klosterman Isn't Even Here Right Now
One of America's foremost cultural critics steps out of the writer's cabin and into the studio to predict the future of a game that seems too big to stop: What happened to the egghead prophecy of Peak Football? Is 11 minutes actually the perfect amount of... more
Battle of the Bulge: We Expose a Crotch Conspiracy Rocking the Olympics
Deflategate. Sign-stealing. Lance Armstrong. The competition is stiff, but no dynasty comes close to trying this hard to get ahead. In a soup-to-nuts collaboration, The Athletic's Matthew Futterman reports from the nether regions of the Winter Games on a... more
The Sporting Class: Woke NFL Media Mob, How Netflix Wins & MLB's Life-Changing Mistake
Has the media establishment become so politicized that it won't let a beat reporter be human? What does "maybe" mean in the proxy fight for Warner Bros.? And did old white men change the trajectory of baseball... because they don't know how to use the... more
The Man Who Can Find Anywhere
He is a god of Google Maps — an internet legend for matching a single image with a far-flung location, in the blink of an eye. But Trevor Rainbolt never wanted to be an influencer. And for a while there, he'd never even left the United States. The 27-year-old... more
Mercy for Sale: Inside Trump's Pardon Machine, with TrueAnon's Brace Belden
What do Darryl Strawberry, NBA YoungBoy and a plastic-surgery "slush fund" have in common? They're all beneficiaries of the president's cottage industry to sell access, buy freedom and redefine the meaning of crime. We explore an exclusive social network of... more
The Briefcase, Ballmer's Social Network and Aspiration's House of Cards: Kawhi-Gate Part VII
As the NBA's investigation heats up, Pablo goes behind closed doors — and emerges with fresh sunlight: What exactly did the Clippers know about Kawhi Leonard's no-show deal? When did Steve Ballmer really get to know the fraudster who paid him off? And what do... more
The Congressman Who Unlocked the Epstein Files
He's got Silicon Valley billionaires up in his mentions. He got Trump to release more Epstein files — and forecasts "a bombshell month" ahead from Rape Island. But now Rep. Ro Khanna wants to fend off nothing less than a populist revolution, with a moral... more
The Points You Shouldn't Score: A New Year's Resolution
Everyone complains about cellphones. But there's something bigger and more insidious going on, from football teams and Netflix shows to law schools and Instagram. So philosopher C. Thi Nguyen offers some gamified advice for 2026, to plug the downside of data... more
The Last Bromance: How Wrestling Corrupted the NBA Finals (PTFO Vault)
Did Dennis Rodman and Karl Malone blow the 1998 NBA Finals by promoting their pro-wrestling match... on the court?! Should there be an asterisk?! Is it time for Michael Jordan to relinquish the throne?! Correspondent Neil Punsalan enters a sports marketing... more
Why Listening to Action Bronson Makes Us Happy (PTFO Vault)
He raps, cooks, paints, hosts and acts (for Martin Scorsese, at least). He also has philosophical explanations for why A) he never wears pants, B) his go-to move is the headbutt and C) nothing is better than a VHS tape. But Action Bronson had still never heard... more
How Shane Battier Learned to Lead, and Shut the F*** Up (PTFO Vault)
LeBron called him the smartest hooper alive. Coach K called him an alien. Obama called him for a Hall-of-Fame pickup game (and a historic BBQ). But two-time NBA champion Shane Battier has been measuring the immeasurable inflection points of his career all... more
One Yard at a Time: A Mystery (PTFO Vault)
Under-recruited running back from a collapsed American city — with a single mom and a dream — wins the Super Bowl. Sounds familiar, right? But NFL coach Deland McCullough's story, as told through his book with Sarah Spain, has a twist all its own. (Thanks to a... more
The Secret Album That the NBA's Best Executive Doesn't Want You to Hear (PTFO Vault)
How did the shadowy general manager of the Oklahoma City Thunder, Sam Presti, become an urban legend? Pablo unearths a treasure buried by its own elaborate design... then dances into The Jazz Rabbit Hole with Wyatt Cenac and a special mystery guest.

(This... more
Share & Christmas & Tell with Katie Nolan and Michael Cruz Kayne (and Jordon Hudson)
In our year-end holiday spectacular, we get a visit from The Ghost of Podcast Future — and get increasingly loose: Has this show been ripped from the headlines? When did women start to stinkin'? Is Pablo the 50 Cent of journalism? And the tree is gone, but... more
Exclusive: We Found the Knicks' Top-Secret Tapes for Kawhi, Kyrie and KD
If you thought reuniting The Sopranos and Wu-Tang to recruit LeBron James and Kevin Durant were the ultimate celebrity pitches, just wait until Pablo unboxes this time capsule for Desus Nice, Frank Isola... and you.

Previously on PTFO:
• Share & Wu & Tell... more
The Sporting Class: A Hostile Takeover, FIFA Bribes & the 2025 Gold Rush
Did Warner Bros. start a war so that its CEO could cash in for courtside seats? Would Mickey Mouse give a fast pass to FIFA? And what did our white-hat hackers learn this year on Rich Guys OnlyFans? John Skipper and David Samson butt heads about sports... more
Six Degrees of Jeffrey Epstein, with the Experts of TrueAnon
The internet is feasting on the files of a scandal (almost) everyone can agree upon. But who's following the money? Our friends from the inimitable TrueAnon podcast — Brace Belden and Liz Franczak — break down the latest tranches, the hidden characters, the... more
The Bizarro Sporting Class: How to Buy a Hollywood Studio
What happens when the richest people on Earth thirst for content? Sir Mike Schur and mere serf Joe Mande de-code Silicon Valley's playbook for Hollywood in the bidding war for Warner Bros. — and start an auction of their own.

• Bid to win Joe Mande's custom... more
Share & Wu & Tell with Method Man and Dan Le Batard
Does Gen X know how to FaceTime? Will money contaminate your team? Can your creativity breed insomnia? Why are rappers good liars? And did Wu-Tang really make a KD recruitment video for the Knicks? Plus: Pharma Bro, JV wrestling, beating Stugotz's team in... more
The Goalie Who Went to Hell and Back
America disappeared an innocent man into a terrorist prison, for his Real Madrid tattoo. This is his story of survival — and resistance — from correspondent Paola Ramos.
Share & Starfriends & Tell with Mina Kimes and Katie Nolan
Would you fly across the country to see Avatar with your group chat? What's a five-star Taco Bell order? Why can't we buy sweet-and-sour sauce from a grocery store? Are fake plants OK? And can you truly love an apex predator? Plus: The conversational risk of... more
Maury Povich and Connie Chung Love Each Other to Death
He's always early; she's always late. She holds grudges; he doesn't. But after more than 40 years together, this TV power couple has learned to take the work seriously — and themselves less so. The recovering sportscaster and principled anchor pass through the... more
Exclusive: The NBA Player, the Congressman and the Epstein Files
He's the tall guy in the notorious Mar-a-Lago video with Donald Trump and Jeffrey Epstein. He's lived at the intersection of sports, politics and high society. What does Tom McMillen have to say for himself, after the release of the new Epstein files? Pablo... more
The NFL's Secret Scammer and the $5 Billion Check (PTFO Vault)
Pablo investigates one man's attempt to buy the Washington Commanders from the worst owner in all of sports — including, but not limited to: Bank of America, the Imperial Japanese Army, Coach K, Bob Marley... and cashews.

(This episode originally aired... more
Fowl Shots: The Untold Story of Brickin' for Chicken (PTFO Vault)
The gimmick seems simple: If a visiting player misses two straight free throws, every fan gets free chicken. But in this tale of psychology, philanthropy and unintended consequences, nobody wants to admit the truth. So we teamed up with Amin Elhassan to... more
Wilt Chamberlain and the Conspiracy Factory (PTFO Vault)
Why do so many people still think the 100-point game is fake news? We crate-dig with author Gary Pomerantz, from a rare-book library... to a basement closet... to a vault in Hershey, Pennsylvania — and end up with a poem from the last Warrior... more
Share & Jailbait & Tell with Mike Schur and Jessica Smetana
What did FaceTime cheating with RFK Jr. feel like? What does Olivia Nuzzi's MySpace song sound like? And what does Pablo have in common with Jeffrey Epstein? Plus: Bob Woodward's spoken-word rap album... and several cans of worms.

Further content:

•... more
All-American Grift: We Investigated Trump's Favorite Sports Troll
She notoriously parlayed a tie for fifth into a star turn on Fox News. But who's funneling money into the radicalization of Riley Gaines? And what's her dark past lurking beneath the surface? In partnership with PTFO, Madison Pauly from The Center for... more
What the Hell Happened to Phil Mickelson?
Why did one of the greatest golfers ever turn on his own legacy to become a culture warrior with a T-rex skull? His definitive chronicler, Alan Shipnuck, re-visits the many scandals of "a master manipulator" — and uncovers a pattern among Trump-era men who... more
The Invisible Hitmaker Behind the Soundtrack of Your Life
He's played with Aretha, Steely Dan and thousands more. He's influenced Zeppelin, hip-hop and "MMMBop." He is your favorite musician's favorite musician — a role player with too many rings to count who's been helping you dance for decades. So it's about time... more
The Sporting Class: Inside Google's $200 Million War on ESPN
As The Great Football Blackout of 2025 reaches the cliff's edge, John Skipper and David Samson take Pablo inside Disney's call before the earnings call: Does Silicon Valley have a higher tolerance for pain than Mickey Mouse? Does the Worldwide Leader have more... more
Share & Goon & Tell with Desus Nice and Katie Nolan (NSFW)
Since when did we become so constantly confronted by p*rn? And why is that making you so uncomfortable? Plus: goon fuel, goon caps, goon caves, gooning fraud, hentai wankbattlers and miscegenating Starburst.
Exclusive: Phil Mickelson, the Pipeline and Trump's (Alleged) 14-Inch Pipe
Why has the famous golfer (and notorious gambler) been hooking right and tweeting incessantly about insider trading? Hunterbrook Media's Sam Koppelman got inside a group chat even more bro'd-out than the defense secretary's Signal messages — and uncovered... more
"Your League Is So Cooked": The Best Bettor in NBA History on How to Solve a Gambling Crisis
He made nine figures by finding patterns in basketball, from the skycap counter of the Winnipeg airport to high-stakes athlete encounters in Vegas. Then Bob Voulgaris brought his dark-alley secrets to Mark Cuban's front office. Now, as scandal infects the... more
Where is the athlete resistance to Trump? Why do owners sportswash themselves? How did trans athletes get weaponized? And what's the difference between cable news and Pardon The Interruption? Pablo sits down with Professor James Waller at the University of... more
Share & Witch & Tell with Michael Cruz Kayne and "The Supermarket Sorceress"
What does real-life witch Lexa Roséan think of Etsy witches in the MLB playoffs? Is there a recipe to re-kill Bin Laden and/or save humanity from A.I.? And how easy it to f*ck up a spell? Plus: witch wars, curse battles, the origin of "abracadabra," the butt... more
Hoopfellas: We Investigated the "Puppet Master" of NBA Gambling
Basketball's high-stakes nightmare is front-page news. But Pablo has been decoding thousands of pages of court documents, while talking to two dozen sources... and keeping up with Kash Patel, to unmask the would-be kingpin hiding in plain sight. Amin Elhassan... more
The Sporting Class: How to Handle a Gambling Scandal
Why would millionaires risk it all for a bet? How do you cheer up a player facing down the feds? Will the WNBA's civil war ever end? And who really killed the Montreal Expos? John Skipper and David Samson reunite at a knock-down, drag-out moment for sports... more
Put a Ring on It: Debunking the Myth of Bill Belichick's Consigliere
Carolina football GM Mike Lombardi likes to talk about himself as a three-time Super Bowl champion operating an NFL team in college. But not all Super Bowl rings are created equal. Correspondent (and UNC dad) David Fleming joins Pablo to fact-check the $1.5... more
How We Forgot About CTE with Domonique Foxworth
Domonique joked about his forgetfulness for years, and Pablo gas-bagged about the ethical dilemma — and existential crisis — of concussions in the NFL. But with football more popular than ever, fewer people seem to give a sh*t about CTE — and who's watching... more
Share & Burn-Book & Tell with Joe Mande and Mike Schur
How did Adam Silver end up in bed with a paper magnate? Why did a 77-point airing of grievances about A-Rod help to free Anthony Edwards? And can this all be solved with an Aspiration credit card? Plus: Moldovan bots, embroidered hats, Sporcle quizzes and one... more
Exclusive: Bill Belichick, Jordon Hudson and the Carolina Blue Box of Palace Intrigue
UNC football has devolved into the biggest hot mess in college sports. Can we interest you in a hot mic? Because in order to understand the GOAT coach's inner circle in Chapel Hill, you really need to open the gift we've brought for Katie Nolan and Michael... more
Share & Strap-On & Tell with Sue Bird and Megan Rapinoe
The greatest power couple in sports returns for a blue-cardigan'd victory lap full of wisdom, statues, Suegronis, Stud Budz... and real talk on what the WNBA's nuclear option could mean for the future of work.

• Subscribe to "Bird's Eye View with Sue... more
Enter the Dungeon: An IRL Showdown with Mark Cuban on Kawhi-Gate
After tweeting 17,053 words in defense of his fellow billionaire NBA owner, the most polarizing member of Team Ballmer is back — in-studio — to confront all of Pablo's most burning questions: Why was Kawhi Leonard's deal kept so secret? When did the Clippers... more
"Parenting First Take" (and the Super Bowl Halftime Stakes) with Mina Kimes
In a belated 40th birthday link-up, our favorite geriatric millennial stops by to restore your faith in humanity with truck content from her toddler bro, the definition of a sports parent, the hardest part about growing up right now and the best thing about... more
Share & "Retire" & Tell with Dan Patrick and Dan Le Batard (and LeBron's Hands)
How do you know when to hang it up? Or do you keep working, even if you're sick or if your loved ones are dying? Do you need to be laughing at yourself, while the audience laughs at you? And is sports media really a young man's game? Plus: the state of the... more
One Dream After Another: The Storytelling Secrets of This American Life's Ira Glass
For nearly three decades, he's crafted cinematic narratives on public radio that are unapologetically performative and decidedly high-brow. But Ira Glass, in real life, is not some vegetarian sandwich. Pablo seeks kindred wisdom on activating a third ear,... more
The Sporting Class: What You Can’t Control, with David Samson
He’s watched one movie per day for the last 30 years. He’s a germaphobe. He obsesses over the efficient use of his time. But when David Samson, the ex-president of the Miami Marlins, just last month, received the news of his daughter’s sudden illness, the life... more
"I Just Am That B*tch": Ilana Glazer on Broad City, Broadway and Bursting Bubbles
Before she rode the shooting star of Broad City into the comedy stratosphere, Ilana Glazer lived in Pablo's old apartment. The non-roommates reunite to blow off steam on: the infuriating inequality of New York; the Helveticazation of Silicon Valley; the... more
Steve Ballmer's "Inconceivable" Donation, the $20 Million Guarantee and a Head on a Spike: Kawhi-Gate, Part V
Media Day will force Kawhi Leonard to respond to scandal, but not before Pablo returns with new scoops and urgent questions: Just how easy was the "no-show" payday? Did Uncle Dennis really act alone? And why did the richest owner in sports keep funding a... more
Mission, Possible: The Otherworldly Optimism of Senator Mark Kelly
He was an astronaut. Then his wife, Rep. Gabby Giffords, survived an act of political gun violence. Now, he's a U.S. Senator tinkering his way around the "stupid sh*t" inside Washington's machine. Can Mark Kelly convince his colleagues to look past corporate... more
Why Isn't There Tickling in MMA? An Investigation
Socrates called it a sensation of both pleasure and pain. But the tickle is the one legal move that the UFC won't talk about — especially after the tickle went viral. Correspondent David Fleming giggles his way from a rat-titilating neuroscientist in Germany... more
Share & Smooch & Tell with Katie Nolan and Michael Cruz Kayne
When did Hollywood get so good at cucking? Can hot guys be character actors? Who's your work wife? Would you drink a bucket of Wegovy? And is Shrek real? Plus: Paris Hilton, #MeSlurp, Smooching+ and the Shaquille O'Neal of hiding behind a tree... of braces. more
Lina Khan (and Zohran Mamdani) on Why Billionaires Never Learn — and the Apolitical Absurdity of $6,000 World Cup Tickets
Pablo welcomes back America's most feared (and respected) young watchdog for lessons in challenging the Steve Ballmers of the world — and real talk on how "dynamic pricing" is more like surveillance. Speaking of which, a certain New York City mayoral candidate... more
Steve Ballmer, the Other Cuban and the $118 Million Infusion: Kawhi-Gate, Part IV
As the NBA commissioner and the richest owner in sports dig in their heels, Pablo scoops up more Aspiration receipts — from Mark Cuban's tweets to the Clippers' C-suite and the cellphone of Uncle Dennis. Meanwhile, Dan Le Batard breaks character to look after... more
Poaching Data, Little Dragon: Uncovering China's Secret War for Athlete Brainwaves
Superstars like Jannik Sinner and Mikaela Shiffrin wear a headset to train their minds and get in the zone. But a six-month investigation by Hunterbrook Media, in collaboration with PTFO, uncovered the technology's secret funding by entities linked to the... more
Share & Adobo & Tell with Alonzo “Hamburger” Jones and Michael Cruz Kayne
A visit from the Def Comedy Jam legend that, as of one month ago, Pablo and Michael did not know. Alonzo “Hamburger” Jones is not afraid to answer the tough questions: about how he discovered his catchphrase; why he’s wearing a Daniel Jones jersey; and what it... more
The Mystery Investor, the No-Show Payday and the
Pablo unveils shocking new details (and documents) from inside the fraudulent company that spawned a generational NBA scandal, as Amin Elhassan and David Samson return for rational explanations in the court of podcast opinion — and contemplate Steve Ballmer's... more
The Naked Fun: Streaking's GOAT Bares His Soul
He's stripped at the Super Bowl and evaded the authorities at Wimbledon. He danced in a tutu at the Olympics and raced alongside Usain Bolt. But Mark Roberts is more than the world's most notorious streaker. Because his memories of mischief contain multitudes. more
As the NBA announced an investigation in response to Pablo's reporting on Kawhi Leonard and the Clippers, he turned a Twitter war with the longtime Dallas Mavericks owner into an exclusive, impromptu debate. It was congenial and contentious, hypothetical and... more
The Richest Owner in Sports, the Silent Superstar and the Rotten Apple Tree: A PTFO Investigation
Pablo digs up a clue — buried in a promise to save the planet — and unearths a scandal: Did the wealthiest sports owner on Earth secretly sweeten the pot for the most private star in professional basketball? And what do Iron Man, Martin Luther King and Bill... more