article_id: nyt_124
url: https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/young-adult-hardcover/
title: Young Adult Hardcover-March 15, 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
This copy is for your personal, noncommercial use only.
The Starmaker senses a powerful magic within Aurora Finch and requests that she come study under his tutelage. (Ages 14 to 18)
After years of separation, the childhood friends Alec and Dani reunite and face their true feelings toward each other. (Ages 14 and up)
In this companion to “If He Had Been With Me,” the story of Finn and Autumn is told through three different perspectives. (Ages 14 to 18)
Riven Hesper makes a deal with a “Player,” an immortal being, to save her own life. (Ages 16 and up)
Clarion, the successor to the throne of Pixie Hollow, is determined to confront a monster that threatens the land. (Ages 12 to 18)
Wren and Damien, teens from different social circles, investigate magical mysteries after being brought together by fate. (Ages 14 and up)
Hopeless romantic Liz has a crush on Michael but finds out that she likes being around her neighbor Wes. (Ages 12 and up)
At age 18 in the city of Vinguard, humans are brought before the Tribunal to determine if they are dragon cursed. (Ages 16 to 17)
Anabelle Gage is caught between two warring factions while her own life is on the line. (Ages 14 to 18)
Sarah Barley / Simon & Schuster
Beth March’s sisters are determined to find her killer. (Ages 12 and up)
In “Chosen Land,” Matthew Avery Sutton argues that, despite the intentions of certain founders, the First Amendment guaranteed that the United States would be a godly country.
A version of this list appears in the March 15, 2026 issue of The New York Times Book Review . Rankings on weekly lists reflect sales for the week ending February 28, 2026 . Lists are published early online.
More about our methodology
Up in Rank since last week
Down in Rank since last week
If a book is not in a rank since the previous week , it will not have an arrow. The last few titles on the list known as the extended list, never have arrows.
An asterisk indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it.
A dagger indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders.
Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks) , sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar . And listen to us on the Book Review podcast .