article_id: nyt_127
url: https://www.nytimes.com/books/best-sellers/2026/02/22/
title: The New York TimesBest Sellers-February 22, 2026
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
This copy is for your personal, noncommercial use only.
The 62nd book of the In Death series. The murder of a multibillionaire reveals other crimes that Eve and her team must investigate to see if there is a connection.
A man travels to a small Southern town, where he purchases pencil drawings of local residents and exchanges them for stories.
An advice columnist who is having trouble at work and home decides to get back at people she thinks deserve it.
Letters from someone she used to know push Sybil Van Antwerp toward revisiting her past and finding a way to forgive.
The second book in the Game Changers series. Rival captains of two hockey teams try to keep their relationship out of the spotlight.
The author of “Blood Money” puts forward his argument that mass migration is a political weapon.
by Virginia Roberts Giuffre
The late activist and advocate for sex-trafficking survivors describes her time with Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell.
The law professor and legal analyst delves into the origins of and modern challenges to American democracy.
Burden retraces her marriage of 20 years in search of clues to help shape her understanding about its demise and to find a way forward.
The Republican senator from Louisiana shares stories about politics in Washington, D.C., and in his home state.
Letters from someone she used to know push Sybil Van Antwerp toward revisiting her past and finding a way to forgive.
The 62nd book of the In Death series. The murder of a multibillionaire reveals other crimes that Eve and her team must investigate to see if there is a connection.
Courtney Gray’s vacation is interrupted by two murders and a disappearance of relatives that bring up secrets involving her family and the town.
A 17-year-old named Waldo has an inexplicable attraction to her creative writing teacher.
Dusk sets off to save his people and forms an alliance with a dragon trapped in human form.
The author of “Blood Money” puts forward his argument that mass migration is a political weapon.
The law professor and legal analyst delves into the origins of and modern challenges to American democracy.
by Virginia Roberts Giuffre
The late activist and advocate for sex-trafficking survivors describes her time with Jeffrey Epstein and Ghislaine Maxwell.
The Republican senator from Louisiana shares stories about politics in Washington, D.C., and in his home state.
Burden retraces her marriage of 20 years in search of clues to help shape her understanding about its demise and to find a way forward.
An advice columnist who is having trouble at work and home decides to get back at people she thinks deserve it.
A man travels to a small Southern town, where he purchases pencil drawings of local residents and exchanges them for stories.
The second book in the Game Changers series. Rival captains of two hockey teams try to keep their relationship out of the spotlight.
146 weeks on the list
Troubles surface when a woman looking to make a fresh start takes a job in the home of the Winchesters.
A fake flirtation between a football player and a zookeeper forces them to weigh the risks and rewards of going further.
381 weeks on the list
by Bessel van der Kolk
How trauma affects the body and mind, and innovative treatments for recovery.
160 weeks on the list
Twenty lessons from the 20th century about the course of tyranny.
The actress and filmmaker describes her eating disorders and difficult relationship with her mother.
The author of “Midnight of Chernobyl” chronicles the history of the space shuttle program with a focus on the 1986 disaster that killed all seven people on board.
180 weeks on the list
The late feminist icon explores the causes of a polarized society and the meaning of love.
324 weeks on the list
by Aaron Reynolds. Illustrated by Peter Brown
Thadeus and Oliver take a bite out of a salad that may bite back! (Ages 6 to 9)
529 weeks on the list
A boy with a facial deformity starts school. (Ages 8 to 12)
276 weeks on the list
by America's Test Kitchen Kids
Over 100 kid-tested recipes from America's Test Kitchen. (Ages 8 and up)
by Rick Riordan and Mark Oshiro
Nico, Will and Hazel delve into the mysterious disappearances of monsters at Camp Jupiter. (Ages 10 to 14)
by Sara Pennypacker. Illustrated by Jon Klassen
A young, orphaned boy’s courage emerges amid the Nazi occupation of his French village during World World II. (Ages 8 to 12)
by Alice Schertle. Illustrated by Jill McElmurry
Little Blue Truck delivers Valentine's Day cards to all his farm animal friends. (Ages 4 and up)
A ravenous insect returns with its appetite intact. (Ages 3 to 5)
by Suzanne Lang. Illustrated by Max Lang
Jim Panzee believes that Valentine's Day is gross, especially kissing! (Ages 4 to 8)
Meet the members of the K-pop group Huntrix. (Ages 2 to 5)
by Alice Walstead. Illustrated by Andy Elkerton
The Catch Club Kids attempt to catch a dinosaur that wants to spread love and kindness. (Ages 4 to 8)
882 weeks on the list
by Jeff Kinney. Illustrated by Jeff Kinney
The travails and challenges of adolescence. (Ages 9 to 12)
409 weeks on the list
In a dystopia, a girl fights for survival on live TV. (Ages 12 and up)
814 weeks on the list
A boy battles mythological monsters. (Ages 9 to 12)
881 weeks on the list
A wizard hones his conjuring skills in the service of fighting evil. (Ages 10 and up)
A story of forbidden love between Paedyn, an Ordinary, and Kai, an Elite, in the kingdom of Ilya. (Ages 14 and up)
Riven Hesper makes a deal with a “Player,” an immortal being, to save her own life. (Ages 16 and up)
Wren and Damien, teens from different social circles, investigate magical mysteries after being brought together by fate. (Ages 14 and up)
After years of separation, the childhood friends Alec and Dani reunite and face their true feelings toward each other. (Ages 14 and up)
Anabelle Gage is caught between two warring factions while her own life is on the line. (Ages 14 to 18)
In this companion to “If He Had Been With Me,” the story of Finn and Autumn is told through three different perspectives. (Ages 14 to 18)
A version of this list appears in the February 22, 2026 issue of The New York Times Book Review . Rankings on weekly lists reflect sales for the week ending February 7, 2026 . Lists are published early online.
More about our methodology
Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks) , sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar . And listen to us on the Book Review podcast .
A version of this list appears in the February 22, 2026 issue of The New York Times Book Review . Rankings on weekly lists reflect sales for the week ending February 7, 2026 . Lists are published early online.
More about our methodology