article_id: nyt_129
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/subject/asianamericans?page=9
title: Asian Americans
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The New York Times traveled to Honolulu, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New Orleans and New York to see how Asian American communities blend old and new customs to celebrate the Lunar New Year.
By Chevaz Clarke, Daniel Fetherston, Miya Lee and Emily Wolfe
The Pan-Asian landscape is rich with tradition. In Honolulu, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New Orleans and New York, communities blend old and new customs to make the holiday their own.
By Chevaz Clarke, Miya Lee and Emily Wolfe
In a San Francisco garage, Corey Chan and his team create giant, spectacular lions that will lead the festivities.
By Miya Lee and Jake Michaels
Queens echoes with a quiet carved out by mass deportation.
By Rong Xiaoqing and Andrés Altamirano
Instead, the man was convicted of lesser charges, including involuntary manslaughter, in the death of Vicha Ratanapakdee. The killing became a symbol of rising attacks against Asians during the pandemic.
For many Asian Americans, a single cocktail can cause their faces to turn red. Known as the “Asian glow,” the condition can stir up mixed emotions.
Her film “Who Killed Vincent Chin?” earned an Oscar nomination in 1988 and was inducted into the National Film Registry for its cultural significance.
The actor, born in Japan, starred in dozens of film and television shows, including Amazon’s “The Man in the High Castle.” His career spanned more than three decades.
Mayor-elect Zohran Mamdani has spoken about integrating America’s largest education system in striking terms rarely heard from big city leaders.
A Black Hedda Gabler on film and a white Korean robot onstage are sending mixed signals about the status of cultural diversity and representation.
U Pyinya Zawta fled political persecution in Myanmar and has settled in Buffalo.
By Mark Sommer and Jalen Wright
Some law enforcement officials say they think organized crime rings from South America, in particular from Colombia, are responsible for the crime sprees.
By Amy Qin and Celeste Noche
From religion to race, age to ethnicity, pockets of New Yorkers represent key blocs that can unlock tens of thousands of votes in a citywide race.
By Maya King and Benjamin Oreskes
Before Zohran Mamdani became a state legislator, he helped South Asian New Yorkers who were in danger of losing their homes because of tax liens and job losses.
The shift mirrors trends at other elite schools after a ban on affirmative action. The Trump administration has said it wants to scrutinize demographics to ensure schools aren’t using racial preferences.
Our Ask the Therapist columnist, Lori Gottlieb, advises a reader who moved to the South to satisfy his partner and now wants to find his way home.
The “New York Sari” exhibition at the New York Historical, which runs through April, shines a light on how the garment is more than just fashion.
By Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Anjula Acharia, who hosts the “All That Glitters” ball, has chai with her fiancé before a day full of hairstyling, makeup and diamonds.
By Alisha Haridasani Gupta
Long the leading Asian American playwright, he was writing autofictional works about identity politics decades before those were cultural obsessions.
Zohran Mamdani’s upstart campaign for mayor of New York City is inspiring the growing South Asian community to be more active in politics.
By Sarah Chatta, Maya King, Jeff Adelson and Shuran Huang
A cabaret and nightclub in Bushwick amplifies Asian culture with moody music, cinematic interior design and drinks inspired by Chinese legend.
By Alix Strauss and Amir Hamja
The journeyman played for eight N.B.A. teams and won one championship. But he is best known for a brief stretch on the Knicks where he electrified fans and the nation.
By Andrés R. Martínez
El consulado chino en Manhattan ha movilizado a grupos comunitarios para derrotar a los candidatos que no se alinean con el Estado autoritario.
By Michael Forsythe, Jay Root, Bianca Pallaro and David A. Fahrenthold
同乡会等团体已成为中国驻纽约领事馆干预纽约各级选举的工具。这些组织大力扶持那些持亲中共立场的候选人、阻挠那些反对北京的政治人物。
By Michael Forsythe, Jay Root, Bianca Pallaro and David A. Fahrenthold
The Chinese Consulate in Manhattan has mobilized community groups to defeat candidates who don’t fall in line with the authoritarian state.
By Michael Forsythe, Jay Root, Bianca Pallaro and David A. Fahrenthold
Kaila Yu’s “Fetishized” is a candid and intimate memoir of the exoticized Asian body.
The man had been convicted of manslaughter as a teenager after he admitted to fatally shooting a man during a pool hall confrontation in Brooklyn, arguing it was self-defense.
By Luis Ferré-Sadurní
The downtown mall was long considered a thriving retail anchor, while the suburban-style one was an afterthought. They had a surprising role reversal.
By Heather Knight and Coral Murphy Marcos
As Zohran Mamdani gets within striking distance of becoming New York’s first Muslim mayor, he is drawing fire from supporters of India’s populist prime minister, who accuse him of being anti-Hindu.
The city’s eight specialized high schools are regarded as crown jewels but also symbols of segregation. The number of Black and Hispanic students admitted to them dipped slightly from last year.
When the show said Andrew Barth Feldman, a white actor, would replace Darren Criss, who is of Filipino descent, alarms were sounded by some Asian American actors.
By Derrick Bryson Taylor
Like many younger Asian Ugandans, he is redefining his relationship with the country where he was born.
One in five voters who cast a ballot for Donald Trump in 2024 was a person of color. Why?
By Daniel Martinez HoSang
The city’s newest indoor shopping center, in Queens, has defied predictions of the death of the American mall by catering to Asian American shoppers.
Antes se pensaba que fumar era casi la única causa de este cáncer, pero aproximadamente entre el 10 y el 25 por ciento de los cánceres de pulmón se dan en personas que nunca han fumado.
By Nina Agrawal and Allison Jiang
The face of lung cancer — once older men with a history of smoking — has changed.
By Nina Agrawal and Allison Jiang
Two Asian American women were mistaken for each other. One was accused of physically assaulting a flight attendant, but both were denied boarding, a lawsuit claims.
Larry He, who served as Mr. Cuomo’s Asian outreach director, held senior posts at a multibillion-dollar firm owned by China but omitted the experience from his résumé.
By Jay Root, Michael Forsythe and Bianca Pallaro
The event marked the culmination of The New York Times series focusing on the rising effect of the A.A.P.I. community on American culture.
He is believed to have been the first Asian to dance with New York City Ballet when he was cast in George Balanchine’s production of “The Nutcracker.”
Many Asian American women treat gold as an asset as well as an adornment. Now, their daughters are changing how they wear these precious metals.
By Sadiya Ansari and Spandita Malik
For decades, the share of American Catholics declined in the face in secularization. But in recent years, those numbers have stabilized, buoyed by growing communities and broader societal changes.
A show at the Met offers a feminist revision of Chinoiserie, a decorative style that swept through Europe in the age of empires and seeded stereotypes of Asian women.
This season introduced Miss Huang — and used her as a visual shorthand for a longstanding American anxiety.
His reporting sought to humanize and unite Asian Americans. It also led to the release of a Korean immigrant on death row.
Please tell us about your relationship to gold, jewelry or other inherited adornments of precious metals and how you wear them.
Merle Oberon fue una popular actriz nominada a un Oscar. Pero un hecho que ocultó al público amenazaba con arruinar el trabajo de toda su vida.
Merle Oberon was a popular actress who was once nominated for an Oscar. But a fact that she hid from the public threatened to unspool her entire life’s work.
Sally Kim, president and publisher at Little, Brown and Company, wants to give everyone a seat at the table.
Bryant Lin, quien enseña medicina en la Universidad de Stanford, recibió un diagnóstico terminal. Quería que sus alumnos comprendieran la humanidad que está al centro de la profesión.
By Kate Selig and Rachel Bujalski
Dr. Bryant Lin, who teaches medicine at Stanford University, was given a terminal diagnosis. He wanted his students to understand the humanity at the core of medicine.
By Kate Selig and Rachel Bujalski
She was the first descendant of a Chinese immigrant to win elective office in New York State. She was also the state’s first female jurist of Asian heritage.
The author of “The Joy Luck Club” once vowed to have her papers destroyed after her death. Now they are going to the University of California, Berkeley.
By Jennifer Schuessler
Kaiyan Mao and Yu Zhou “were always there” as their son pursued his figure skating dreams. On Wednesday, the family flew together from Wichita to Washington.
By Amy Qin and Juliet Macur
Three findings from the first class to enter college without race-conscious admissions.
By Aatish Bhatia, Ben Blatt, Francesca Paris, Alicia Parlapiano and Eve Washington
It’s a culture not of success but of survival.
Los expertos comparten consejos para minimizar la irritación y evitar preguntas incómodas e intrusivas.
Curtis Chin’s memoir, “Everything I Learned, I Learned in a Chinese Restaurant,” celebrates the cuisine and community of his youth. Now he’s paying it forward.
As Democrats try to fire up their fatigued base, two contests for the Virginia legislature will serve as the first measure of partisan enthusiasm since Donald J. Trump’s victory.
Big cities have faced serious problems lately. But there’s little evidence those problems are what drove voters to the right in November.
By Emily Badger and Alicia Parlapiano
As the first African American to win a medal in a sport long dominated by white Europeans, he was compared to Jackie Robinson and Arthur Ashe.
The mayor and labor unions say the $1.3 billion basketball arena would be an economic boost. But the city acknowledges that Chinatown could be at risk.
By David W. Chen and Hannah Beier
A longtime vendor in Manhattan’s Chinatown is finding it harder to make a living as people shun his intricate crafts, haggle over cheap knickknacks and shift their spending online.
In scores of interviews throughout 2024, Latino, Black and Asian American voters, many of whom voted for Donald Trump, said they no longer trusted Democrats to improve the economy.
The G.O.P. pollster Patrick Ruffini’s book “Party of the People” outlined the realignments reflected in this year’s election results.
Donald Trump ganó terreno con los votantes latinos y negros de clase trabajadora, dando al partido la esperanza de una nueva forma de ganar en una nación que se diversifica.
By Michael C. Bender, Katie Glueck, Ruth Igielnik and Jennifer Medina
This week in Newly Reviewed, Holland Cotter covers two group shows that illuminate important histories of Asian and Asian American art.
By Holland Cotter and Jillian Steinhauer
Donald J. Trump picked up support among Latino and Black working-class voters, giving the party hope for a new way to win in a diversifying nation.
By Michael C. Bender, Katie Glueck, Ruth Igielnik and Jennifer Medina
The rightward shift in the presidential election results was especially pronounced among Asian voters and Hispanic voters in Queens and the Bronx.
By Dana Rubinstein and Stefanos Chen
Seventeen years after he first appeared in “Yellow Face,” the veteran actor Francis Jue has returned with a nuanced performance as a blustery patriarch.
Representative Michelle Steel, a Republican incumbent, and Derek Tran, her Democratic challenger, are trying to identify with a crucial voting bloc of Vietnamese Americans.
It’s not easy being a dot of blue in Trump country.
Hasan Minhaj, Mira Nair and Nora Fatehi joined business and entertainment leaders of South Asian descent at the Pierre hotel in their most elegant attire.
Death rates are declining among U.S. women with breast cancer. But the disease is turning up more often in women under age 50.
The legal group that won a Supreme Court case that ended race-based college admissions suggested it might sue schools where the percentage of Asian students fell.
By Anemona Hartocollis
Here is what we know about the effects of the Supreme Court’s decision curtailing race-based admissions at selective universities. And why many experts and administrators are baffled.
By Anemona Hartocollis and Stephanie Saul
By presenting “The Orphan of Chao” and “Snow in Midsummer,” the Shaw Festival is helping “the past to smash its way into the modern world.”
Defying expectations, a Supreme Court decision curtailing race-based admissions still had a relatively small impact at some highly selective schools like Harvard, even as other schools saw big changes.
By Anemona Hartocollis
Along with Harvard University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill was one of two schools defending affirmative action in Supreme Court cases last year.
In the new Broadway production of “Yellow Face,” the “Lost” and “Hawaii Five-0” star is taking a risk. “I am aware,” he says, “that people have not usually seen me in this way.”
Amherst College and Tufts University saw drops in the number of Black students after a Supreme Court decision ending affirmative action. At other schools, the picture is murkier.
By Anemona Hartocollis and Stephanie Saul
Hollywood has portrayed Asian American men in unflattering ways for decades. One Culture reporter aimed to bring the uncomfortable conversations out of group chats, and into The Times.
Western pop culture, past and present, has often emasculated Asian male characters. A new crop of roles are starting to offer alternatives.
By Matt Stevens and Ricardo Nagaoka
Asian American students made up almost half of the 2028 class — the first admitted since the end of affirmative action.
By Anemona Hartocollis and Stephanie Saul
The leading mayoral candidates are racing to hire influential activists in the city’s large Chinese community and looking for every opportunity to reach Chinese-speaking voters.
Ms. Yasutake played Nurse Alyssa Ogawa in “Star Trek: The Next Generation.”
By Alexandra E. Petri
In Georgia, a critical swing state President Biden won by less than 12,000 votes in 2020, Kamala Harris’ political identity has prompted renewed interest among Asian Americans, the fastest-growing group of eligible voters in the United States.
By Isabelle Qian and Alex Pena
In Georgia, a critical swing state President Biden won by less than 12,000 votes in 2020, Kamala Harris’ political identity has prompted renewed interest among Asian Americans, the fastest-growing group of eligible voters in the United States.
By Isabelle Qian, Alex Pena and Amy Marino
Pitting the interests of minority groups against one another seems to be part of Trump’s re-election strategy.
Some Asian American leaders are rooting for Kamala Harris to become the first Asian American president. But she is not widely known as Asian American, reflecting the complexity of the identity.