article_id: nyt_13
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7075452/2026/02/27/deandre-ayton-clint-capela-lakers-nba-the-bounce/
title: Why the internet is roasting the Lakers’ Deandre Ayton
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Deandre Ayton says he's no Clint Capela. He's right, but maybe not for the reason he thinks. Luiza Moraes / Getty Images
The Bounce Newslette r | This is The Athletic’s daily NBA newsletter. Sign up here to receive The Bounce directly in your inbox.
The perfect way to start your Friday is to watch eight minutes of 1990s “I love this game” NBA commercials. I found that for you right here . But maybe do me a favor and read this newsletter first? That would be nice of you. Thank you.
You, sir, are no Clint Capela
“They’re trying to make me Clint Capela. I’m not no Clint Capela!”
That was the Deandre Ayton quote circulating on social media yesterday. You may have seen it in a group chat. You may have seen it on an infographic from an aggregation account. The Los Angeles Lakers center and former No. 1 pick was immortalized on the internet for comparing himself to Capela, the Houston Rockets’ backup center (and former No. 25 pick). The internet agreed with Ayton — but not in the way he’d hope.
The quote came from an ESPN article asserting that the Lakers’ season would come down to Ayton’s play on the court. I disagree, but we’ll get to that in a second. Ayton said it as he walked to the showers after a media scrum in the locker room, following the Lakers’ last-second loss to Orlando on Tuesday. Ayton gave a professional answer about the ball finding energy, and that’s why he was able to find his way to a 21-point, 13-rebound game. His true thoughts came away from the media, but loud enough for them to hear.
Capela has absolutely been a better player in his career than Ayton. Capela has twice received Defensive Player of the Year votes and has career averages of 11 points and 10 rebounds. Ayton has career averages of 16 points and 10 rebounds, but he also takes four more shots per game than Capela. However, Capela has always known the role he needs to fill; Ayton simply doesn’t get it.
According to the article, the Lakers have tried to help fuel Ayton’s ego. It’s probably to keep him engaged as much as possible, which has been an issue in his career:
“The Lakers have stoked that ego, too: Rob Pelinka, team president of basketball operations and general manager, commissioned a black T-shirt with a gold screen print depicting half of a lion’s face and half of Ayton’s face that he presented to the 27-year-old. Members of the training staff wrap Ayton’s water bottle in athletic tape and write ‘DA’s Crunk Juice — Drink this to unleash the beast’ in black marker on it before games.”
This reads like a rejected “Key and Peele” sketch. Funny enough, yesterday was a terrible day for Ayton to have this quote hit the internet. The self-proclaimed and nicknamed “DominAyton” had two points and four rebounds in 23 minutes in a loss to his former Suns team. The Lakers were minus-24 in those minutes. They lost by three points. On the flip side, Capela (now just a role player in Houston in his second stint) had four points, six boards, three assists and four blocks in 17 minutes in a Rockets win. Houston had a neutral plus-minus with Capela on the floor.
The reason I don’t agree that Ayton will be the difference-maker in this season for the Lakers is that they’re already cooked. This team is worse with Ayton on the floor (minus-1.9 net rating) than with him off the floor (plus-0.4). As the Lakers have struggled to find their footing (despite a 34-24 record), the battle cry has been that they will get better because they’ve been dealing with key injuries.
The problem with that is this team is awful when their three best players (LeBron James, Luka Dončić and Austin Reaves) are on the floor together. Going into last night, they were minus-8.4 per 100 possessions in 13 games together. Add Ayton to the mix, and that drops to a minus-12.5 net rating.
The Lakers can’t find any consistency because their defense is so awful, and their offense doesn’t know what to do with their “best options” sharing the court. Yes, Ayton could end up getting more touches and then engaging defensively better, but that won’t take them from mediocre to great. It’ll just make them a slightly more difficult out in the first round.
They actually could really use a Clint Capela or two.
🏀 Class dismissed? The 2024 NBA Draft has not produced the best results so far. John Hollinger says the class is already at a crossroads .
🎤 Loaded “Weapons:” The last installment of our super fun hip-hop and basketball series looks back on the time Converse turned NBA legends into rappers for a commercial .
🏀 Magic City Night. The Hawks are going to bring the strip club vibe without the dancers. So it’s lemon pepper wing night ?
🙏 Thank goodness. Chris Bosh says he’s lucky to be alive. He woke up covered in his own blood .
🏀 Big man in the paint. The Cavs definitely feel like they upgraded with James Harden. But Jarrett Allen was already on a roll .
Stream the NBA on Fubo ( try it for free! ) and catch out-of-market games on League Pass .
Three contenders qualify for a key predictor
Turns out there’s an important stat for projecting which teams are most likely to win an NBA championship. No it’s not Bill Russell’s Per 48 Minutes, although historically that’s a good one too. The stat is actually whether a team wins its 40th game before it loses its 20th. That was a goal Phil Jackson tried to get his teams to achieve during a season, and Scott Phillips wrote about it . In the article, Scott talked to Law Murray, one of our best NBA scribes, and Law has researched this heavily.
“I’m a strong believer of the 40-before-20 rule that Phil Jackson established,” Murray said. “Of the 79 champions in NBA history, only 17 won the title after failing to win 40 games before they lost 20 games. That’s 21.5 percent. Moreover, only four teams in the 3-point line era (since 1979) have won a championship without being a 40-before-20 contender (8.7 percent).
“And 18 of the last 19 champions (have cleared 40 before 20). The exception was the 2021 Milwaukee Bucks, and even the Bucks had to beat a 40-before-20 team in the NBA Finals in the Phoenix Suns.”
That is a pretty overwhelming statistic! And this season, only the Pistons, Spurs and Thunder have reached 40 wins before 20 losses. In fact, those three teams aren’t anywhere close to 20 losses yet. As Law also pointed out, the four teams to win the championship without being a “40 before 20” team had to get through a “40 before 20” team to eventually win the championship.
Those four teams also had some unique context. Giannis Antetokounmpo only played 61 of 72 games for those Bucks (the team went 40-21 with him), which probably affected its ability to win 40 before 20. The Heat saw Shaquille O’Neal play just 59 of 82 games and were 42-17 in the games he played. The Pistons traded for Rasheed Wallace midseason and took off. The Rockets acquired Clyde Drexler midseason.
For the teams that aren’t on the 40-before-20 side of things this season, Denver (with the Nikola Jokić injury) is probably best set up to fight history. But the Nuggets would likely have to get through OKC San Antonio or Detroit — or maybe even all three — to win the title. The Celtics might get Jayson Tatum back, and that would certainly change their dynamic. But if we’re sticking to this pretty overwhelming history, maybe your best guess for the eventual champion does reside in Detroit, OKC or San Antonio.
Rockets outlast Magic; Spurs win 11th straight
Rockets 113, Magic 108: This game was a perfect display for why both teams don’t seem to garner much hope for deep playoff runs. The Magic (31-27) had control of this game early, but they fell apart in the second half. Whereas the Rockets (37-21) struggled early and then needed 40 points from Kevin Durant and a hot second half by Reed Sheppard to put away a mediocre opponent. Neither team made you feel like it can figure this out.
76ers 124, Heat 117: Tyrese Maxey had 28 points, 11 assists and five steals to go with Joel Embiid’s 26 points, 11 rebounds and four assists. The Sixers (33-26) out-executed the Heat in the final minutes to move within one game of fifth place behind Toronto.
Wolves 94, Clippers 88: Anthony Edwards had 31 points, and the Wolves (37-23) barely survived a scrappy, injured Clippers squad. But the thing to know is Ant hit a ridiculous step-back 3-pointer to put Minnesota up four with 42.9 seconds left. Then he talked trash to … his own coach, Chris Finch . Ant said after the game that Finch told him to pass the ball after his previous shot. The Ant Experience is unmatched.
Spurs 126, Nets 110: Julian Champagnie had 26 points, three steals and two blocks in 24 minutes, as the Spurs (43-16) won their 11th straight. They are now just 1.5 games behind OKC for first in the West.
Kings 130, Mavs 121: Precious Achiuwa had 29 points and 12 rebounds to give the red hot Kings (14-47) their second win in their last three games. Big loss for the Mavs (21-37) to snap their two-game win streak.
Hornets 133, Pacers 109: Brandon Miller had 33 points and six made 3-pointers. Kon Knueppel had 28 points and eight made 3-pointers. And the Hornets (29-31) have now won 22 of their last 35.
Hawks 126, Wizards 96: The Corey Kispert revenge game is cliché for a reason! He had 33 points in 28 minutes off the bench to bury his former team.
Blazers 121, Bulls 112: Jerami Grant had 27 points to lead eight Blazers in double figures as Portland finally got revenge for the 1992 NBA Finals. The tanking Bulls have lost 11 straight .
Pelicans 129, Jazz 118: Another big Jazz loss thanks to 42 points from Saddiq Bey. By the way, did you know Zion Williamson has played in 34 straight games? He had 20 points, four boards, four assists and four steals.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Zach Harper is a staff writer for The Athletic, covering the NBA. Zach joined The Athletic after covering the NBA for ESPN.com, CBS Sports and FRS Sports since 2009. He also hosts radio for SiriusXM NBA and SiriusXM Mad Dog Sports Radio. Follow Zach on Twitter @ talkhoops