article_id: nyt_130
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7024793/2026/02/09/super-bowl-bad-bunny-halftime-show-rankings/
title: Super Bowl halftime show rankings: Where does Bad Bunny fall among the greats?
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Bad Bunny showed that the stage — the Super Bowl or the current political climate — was not too big for him. Chris Graythen / Getty Images
This year’s Super Bowl halftime show came with a ton of scrutiny. Bad Bunny is one of the top musical artists in the world, but the current political climate in the United States has put him under a spotlight as an artist whose music is primarily in Spanish.
By Sunday evening, Bad Bunny had risen to the occasion. The production of the show was impeccable, and Bad Bunny’s performance had a little bit of everything. He leaned into everything that makes him great and didn’t shy away from the heritage aspect, which is a big part of who he is. His messaging throughout the show was positivity, and there were parts that left people discussing interpretations long after the show ended.
So, where exactly does Bad Bunny’s performance rank among the greats? In the weeks prior to Sunday’s event, we re-watched every Super Bowl halftime show since 1991, from New Kids on the Block to Kendrick Lamar last year. Apologies in advance to the fans of the various marching bands, Up with People and the other performers through the 1970s and ’80s.
Before we get into the show rankings, here is the rubric I used to evaluate each:
Music and Dance (0-10): Not every singer is a great dancer, but the Super Bowl halftime show is a performance, so we need to make sure the visuals line up with the vocals.
Staging (0-10): Though the music is a big part of the halftime show, so is the presentation. Was it too much or not enough? Or did they get it just right?
Performance Relative to Circumstance (0-10): Current events, time of day and several other things factor in to what a headlining act is able to do.
Performance Relative to Stature (0-10): Not every artist was selected to perform a lights-out, memorable show. We can’t judge Michael Jackson with the same level of expectations as we judge The Who. This category is to make sure we’re being fair to the performer(s).
On performance alone, this show wasn’t great, but we should also mention the weird circumstances around it, with the Gulf War happening and the complications that led to getting this show in front of audiences that weren’t in the stadium. Even beyond that, this show was a disaster for how it tried to balance the circumstances it was put in. Think of it as the anti-U2 show (more on that later).
As tough as the circumstances were, and even giving it grace for being so early in the life of the halftime show’s becoming the spectacle it is now, this was awful.
You know that SpongeBob SquarePants meme of Mr. Crab looking utterly confused in front of a blurry background? That’s a pretty accurate depiction of how I felt rewatching this halftime show. I give it some grace because it was still early on with Super Bowl halftime shows being the grand events they are now, but we’d also already had Michael Jackson in the books, so we knew what it could look like, if done right.
There was just far too much going on. Thankfully, future performers took note and mostly left the skits to Broadway and focused on the musical performances.
Gloria Estefan is the headliner here — but only allegedly. She’s not in the halftime show that much, and this production is on par with several shows from the ’90s, where there is simply too much going on. While I understand we have become very liberal with what Christmastime is and often start listening to Christmas music right after Halloween, I’m not sure a month after Christmas is really the vibe for “Winter Wonderland” and “Frosty the Snowman.” And yes, I understand those aren’t Christmas songs, specifically, and that the theme was “Winter Magic,” but the association is there for a lot of people.
Where this halftime show deserves the most credit is that it was so bad that it had the NFL swing hard the other way and get things right in 1993 … more on that later.
I understand what the direction was here, considering the game was in New Orleans. But Jim Belushi was a low point of this show that even James Brown’s presence couldn’t offset. Without John Belushi, we really could have done without The Blues Brothers.
While I won’t pretend to be an expert on The Who, I can say with confidence that they were not a match to be performing at the Super Bowl. You don’t have to be on top of your game necessarily when you get on the big stage, but there were certainly more relevant choices out there than The Who.
At least the league finally felt it had done enough of the apology tour post-2004 to get back into the type of show that belonged at the Super Bowl in 2011. I’m sure that went glowingly, right? Right ?!
The first 40 seconds or so were promising. I remember watching it live and being hyped about will.i.am, Taboo, Fergie and apl.de.ap descending from the top and seeing everybody on the field rushing to surround the stage on cue like sardines. It looked cool, and they got right into it with a great song choice, “I Gotta Feeling.” One of the reasons I was excited about this show, even going into it, was that it had the catalog for a Super Bowl halftime performance.
Unfortunately, the show lasted more than 40 seconds. The acoustics were off. Fergie’s mic didn’t turn on until she was already into her verse — which isn’t that big of a deal, but it helped deliver the feeling that you were at a college dorm’s karaoke night instead of the Super Bowl halftime show. But credit where it’s due, Usher was solid, and the costumes were a high point.
Important context: This was the season the NFL had a hard time getting a performer for the halftime show in the aftermath of the blacklisting of Colin Kaepernick. So, it got Maroon 5, who predictably gave us plenty of shirtless Adam Levine. Big Boi from OutKast was a good cameo for an Atlanta halftime show, but it was overall unimpressive.
First of all, this Super Bowl was in San Diego, which means the sun was still out during the halftime show. Terrible bit. Hated that. It’s one of the things I’m dreading most about Bad Bunny’s performance Sunday in Santa Clara, Calif. It’s not the performer’s fault, of course, but the show loses some points for it. Otherwise, this was a fine salute to 40 years of Motown, mixing in some older acts with the more popular ones at the time, like Boyz II Men.
I didn’t envy this crew at all, having to follow up Michael Jackson from the previous year. Just for giggles, I think of how it would have landed if anybody here tried to just stand still for more than a minute to begin the show. Anyway, I’m not sure how much country music hits for the broader audience, especially at the Super Bowl.
Play. The. Hits. Nobody’s going to like you if you’re an ice cream shop serving only chicken. It might be good, but that’s not why we came.
The lineup here was good, and the presentation and stage setup were great, too. I didn’t love the narration and trying to make it feel like something it wasn’t. But above all, we didn’t get what we came for.
As a fan of Justin Timberlake, this was one of the most fell-below-expectations halftime shows for me. I was dying for an NSYNC reunion, even for a moment, especially five years after Destiny’s Child. Not only did that not happen, but there was also very little tapping into nostalgia and getting creative, whether it be by himself or alongside somebody else.
For the Rolodex that Timberlake has, I expected more. Credit where it’s due, though: The tribute to Prince, with the Super Bowl in Minnesota, was a solid touch. I wish there were more of that sort of thing throughout the show.
If you take away “the moment,” I actually think this was a pretty solid show. The problem is you can’t just remove the one thing that defined this performance. Not only that, but with the impact it had on Janet Jackson’s career and how it made the NFL curl up for the next half-decade or so, I might have been generous by not ranking it even lower.
Did you understand a word coming out of Mick Jagger’s mouth when he was singing? If so, congratulations. Aside from that, a total of three songs were performed for this show, and one was a new song. Nobody wants that at a Super Bowl halftime show. There was also a strange lull in the middle when Jagger was trying to have a conversation with the crowd for what felt like an eternity. Just say something generic like, “Let’s make some noise, Detroit!” or something and get on with it. You only have roughly 10 to 15 minutes!
The helicopter exit is what people recall most from this show. The overall performance was fine, and I give credit for how many outfit changes Ross had throughout the set. But overall, it felt like an effort to rebound from the terrible show the year prior. For that, it accomplished the goal.
Again, the daytime halftime performance typically does not land well. More Sting could have certainly helped elevate this, but overall, it just felt like these performers lacked chemistry and should not have been performing together. It also goes down in history as extremely forgettable, with U2’s performance the year prior coming in as one of the best ever, and the wardrobe malfunction the year after being one of the most controversial.
You could argue that this is ranked a little too low or a little too high relative to all the other halftime shows. I did the ranking based on the points system of the aforementioned criteria, but really, this was one of the most cruise-control type of shows. It wasn’t spectacularly good or bad. It was solid, which is something I like when I’m jamming out to music in my car late at night. For a Super Bowl halftime show, I would have liked a little extra spice.
You have to wonder how much the lack of a full stadium played into the energy of this show, but the direction of the overall performance didn’t really feel like it was going anywhere. It felt like we were just … lost in a maze. Jokes aside, the fact it happened in 2021 and gave us a meme was nice, but otherwise, it was fairly meh.
Look, it’s Paul McCartney. There was a crowd-involved singalong with “Hey Jude.” In retrospect, this was, perhaps, the perfect performance the NFL could have hoped for the year after the Justin Timberlake-Janet Jackson disaster. When in doubt, go with The Beatles. It was a safe performance.
This one hit the spot relative to the era it was in and where the Super Bowl was being played — in Miami. Stevie Wonder was great, but the highlight was Gloria Estefan. She could perform well anywhere in the country, but in Miami, it was a little extra sweet.
Rihanna typically gets a lot of credit because she was pregnant when she performed, and she hadn’t been on a big stage in a while. I guess that’s worth something, but if I’m just judging the performance itself, it was solid. She played the bangers, which she deserves credit for. She’s an icon of the generation. I just wish she had provided a jaw-dropping moment, because I know she’s capable of it.
It seemingly happens every year now, which is sort of annoying, but this performance got a lot of talk in the immediate aftermath in the culture wars category. I recall feeling it was a fine show in real time, but I wasn’t overly impressed when I watched it live. Going back and watching it again, it moved up a bit for me. I really like the lineup for the Super Bowl being in Miami.
This performance again emphasizes how impressive it is what U2 was able to pull off in 2002, because a couple of months after the 2016 presidential elections, it makes sense there would be a call for patriotism and unity. But starting off the halftime show with “God Bless America” and “This Land Is Your Land” did not land, no pun intended. The rest of the show was pretty great, though.
Again, credit here for sticking to the assignment and playing the hits. Obviously, NSYNC performed “Bye Bye Bye” and “It’s Gonna Be Me.” The thing that was a bummer for me was the audio quality, particularly with Mary J. Blige. Overall, I love the lineup and wish the performance had been better so it could be ranked higher.
For some of these shows, it almost felt like the artist(s) thought they had to do something extraordinary to ensure their acts would land. Sometimes that results in something awesome, but most times it fizzles out and is kind of embarrassing. I didn’t get that feeling with The Boss, and I mean that as a compliment. The NFL had been begging Springsteen to grace its stage for a while, and he finally acquiesced. He had the songs — “Glory Days” and “Born to Run” — you knew were going to hit the spot, and he even made some tweaks to cater to being at a football game. Some might find it cheesy, but I liked it. Side note: The Brandi Chastain slide into the camera is one of my favorite Super Bowl halftime show memories.
This wasn’t a perfect show from start to finish, but the ending was good enough to mask some of the deficiencies early on. I enjoyed the gradual change in wardrobe as well, with Usher working his way down to shirtless by the middle of the show, only to end up in a black-and-blue glittering suit for the home stretch.
Madonna was obviously great, as we all expected she would be. She played the hits and put on a great show, as the NFL was really ready to come out of the safe era of halftime shows. Depending on your age, you may or may not appreciate LMFAO’s appearance, because this was a time when “Party Rock Anthem” was sweeping the nation’s youth. Watching the shuffle being done on the grandest stage, with Madonna also getting in on it, was pretty cool after every kid was doing it in cafeterias, locker rooms and everywhere else.
I’m a big fan of Bruno Mars’ music, but the songs aside, his flair and ability to perform were made to star in a Super Bowl halftime show. Whereas some artists have to add a little something to fit the occasion, it feels like Bruno is just ready-made for the moment. He has the confidence, the charisma, the dance moves and the music. Also, shirtless Red Hot Chili Peppers probably had the same odds of occurring as a football game being played on Super Bowl Sunday.
We all remember Left Shark from this performance — or perhaps you recall Katy Perry’s entrance on the lion, which I would rank behind only Michael Jackson’s entrance. Missy Elliott was more than a cameo in this one, which was a great call because her part made sure the show didn’t miss a beat.
You have to admire the confidence. The setup and uniforms were pretty toned down. There were no extravagant guests. It was Beyoncé telling the world she’s out here performing, playing her hits, and that’s going to be good enough. And my goodness, she was right.
Then, to bring out Destiny’s Child? Just the ultimate cherry on top. This performance checked all the boxes — and it was done at a supremely high level.
There are different types of Super Bowl performer selections. Sometimes, it feels like the biggest name you could get. Other times, it’s about nostalgia. With Kendrick Lamar, it felt like a little bit of everything, but mostly, he was extremely relevant in the moment thanks to his beef with Drake. What really makes this great to me, though, isn’t necessarily Lamar’s performance or the fact he performed “Not Like Us,” albeit with some slight adjustments to the lyrics.
For me, it was the endless number of easter eggs that made this one of the best shows in recent memory. We could be here a while if we broke them all down, but among the highlights: the lowercase “a” chain around his neck, Serena Williams doing the crip walk off to the side, Samuel L. Jackson as Uncle Sam, the PlayStation control setup (PlayStation is owned by Sony, which also owns Drake’s label) punctuated with “Game Over” lit up. Just very intricately planned and flawlessly executed.
The NFL managed to bring in one of the top artists in the world, at the height of his powers, and he delivered. The set was incredible. When the performance began, you wouldn’t know if you were watching something in Santa Clara, Calif., or in Puerto Rico. Even if you didn’t understand a word that he was singing, Bad Bunny’s performance and the production was more than enough to elevate the show. He leaned into the heritage and had unifying messages throughout the show, whether it be on the video screen in the stadium or written on the football he flashed to the cameras.
The bit where he gave the Grammy to the little child watching Bad Bunny receiving it on TV was touching, no matter how the viewer interpreted that moment. Given all of the scrutiny he was under coming into the performance, Bad Bunny showed that the stage — the Super Bowl or the current political climate — was not too big for him.
With the Super Bowl being in Inglewood, Calif., what a lineup it got. The name power turned in a memorable performance, too. Given the discography available with these artists, it would have taken a catastrophe for this not to be a success. The transition to an upside-down 50 Cent breaking into “In Da Club” was one of those moments that elicited a reaction from me as if I’d just witnessed Odell Beckham Jr. make a one-handed catch.
Kendrick Lamar’s performance made it clear he deserved to have the stage all to himself in a future Super Bowl. And Eminem understood the assignment and came out and led the crowd to “Lose Yourself.”
This is a personal favorite of mine. I’ve mentioned how a daytime halftime show detracts from the performance, but it felt like Coldplay catered the show to those circumstances with the vibrant colors throughout and made it fit. Chris Martin’s performance out of the gate was fantastic, and the transition from one song to the next was perfect. It felt like a true party. But what impressed me beyond the surface was how Martin laid out the red carpet for Bruno Mars and Beyoncé, who are top performers of this generation. Coldplay is great, and I’m a huge fan, but Martin, after doing his part well, put aside any ego and not only let Bruno and Beyoncé cook but also fit in well when he joined them.
Beyoncé showed her superhuman powers when she lost her balance for a moment onstage but caught herself so seamlessly. She and Bruno, along with their crews, dancing toward each other was awesome. After “Uptown Funk,” Martin was at the piano, and the graphics and video throughout the stadium paid homage to past halftime shows (this was Super Bowl 50). The Springsteen slide, Katy Perry riding in on the lion, Whitney Houston, Michael Jackson and so many others made the cut. Martin breaking out into a short “Purple Rain” as video of Prince’s performance was being played cut deep for me. This show had everything.
The pioneer of making the Super Bowl halftime show a spectacle, Michael Jackson’s entrance was iconic. There is nobody in history who could stand in one place for so long and be so comfortable and get that kind of reaction from the crowd.
We got “Billie Jean,” we got the moonwalk, and we got “Black or White.” I would have loved “Thriller,” but I’m just being greedy. The historical significance of getting one of the most popular artists in the history of the world can’t be overstated. Before his premature death, there was word that Michael Jackson might have done the Super Bowl again. Could you imagine?
This is one of the halftime shows I’ve watched the most, because sometimes, you want to watch it in mid-September, and sometimes, it pops up around the Super Bowl. When I watch it now, I feel like I take for granted just how well U2 met the moment. We could easily be writing about how the performance on this day became too somber and low-energy or say it was ignorant of what had just happened in the country. Instead, U2 threaded the needle perfectly, and every aspect of this show — the song selections, the running list of 9/11 victims, the jacket flash at the end — was perfect.
I could write an entire essay about this performance, but most of you reading this already know halftime show rankings are about the race for second, because Prince is clearly the top show. The only thing I’ll add is that Prince singing “Purple Rain” while it literally rained is what gets all the shine from this show. But go back and watch it in its entirety — everything around that iconic moment was also spectacular.
I would love to see if anybody out there can top this, because we’re closing in on 20 years now, and nobody has really come close.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Saad Yousuf is a staff writer covering the NFL. He previously covered the Dallas Cowboys and the Dallas Stars at The Athletic. Saad also works at 96.7/1310 The Ticket in Dallas after five years at ESPN Dallas radio. Prior to The Athletic, Saad covered the Cowboys, Mavericks and a variety of other sports at The Dallas Morning News. Follow Saad on Twitter @ SaadYousuf126