article_id: nyt_132
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7000935/2026/01/30/super-bowl-halftime-show-best-moments/
title: The 10 most talked-about Super Bowl halftime shows, from Michael Jackson to Left Shark
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The Super Bowl intermission is a cultural institution. (Illustration: Kelsea Petersen / The Athletic; Paul Spinelli / Getty, Chris O'Meara / Getty, Matt Slocum / Getty, Perry Knotts / Getty)
Prince laughing in the “Purple Rain” he physically manifested. Beyoncé shining before a power blackout. One of Katy Perry’s two gyrating sharks in fugue state. The Super Bowl intermission is a cultural institution. It makes moments and affirms monoculture.
In advance of Bad Bunny at the 60th halftime show, let’s revisit the most talked-about Super Bowl sets ever. We’re measuring this by buzz in the public square, the stuff everyone riffs on come Monday morning. For those who want to sort by pure performance value, The Athletic ’s Levi Weaver ranked each show from worst to best.
Our picks are sorted chronologically. Share memories or drop rebuttals in the comments below. Just keep in mind, this is a place where Patti LaBelle befriended Indiana Jones . Let it all rip:
What everyone was talking about: Halftime became must-see TV.
The first of its kind, a true revelation. CBS saw viewership dip between the game halves in 1992 — Fox lined up a new episode of “In Living Color” to siphon channel changers. The following year was corrected through an “ unprecedented Super Bowl spectacular ,” as introduced by James Earl Jones. Slinking bass of “Billie Jean” led into the guitar punch of “Black or White.” For about 13 minutes, the Rose Bowl became center of the universe, and the King of Pop ruled from the 50-yard line.
From the New York Times archive:
“Jackson produced a stunning first: raising NBC’s halftime rating higher than the Super Bowl action before it. The N.F.L. had grasped the need to enlist big-name, contemporary, broad-appeal artists to keep viewers from straying. So it used Jackson to continue expanding the notion of the Super Bowl as a mega-event that includes a game.” — Richard Sandomir , reacting to Jackson’s death in 2009.
What everyone was talking about: Her curtain call from the chopper.
The supreme Supreme started atop a sparkling crane lift, and she finished on a getaway helicopter. No mountain was high enough for Motown’s matriarch. Diana Ross had a series of outfit changes, which included a now-iconic orange-purple gown and a full-length gold overcoat. The 30th Super Bowl established its halftime program as a stage for peak superstardom. Jackson was the pioneer, but Ross was the amplifier.
“Let Your Dreams Take You Higher. Always Believe. SuperBowl 1996 #DiamondDiana ” pic.twitter.com/OB4BOj5WEq
— Ms. Ross (@DianaRoss) February 3, 2019
What everyone was talking about: The crossover between styles … and Wonder in the driver’s seat.
This one stood out for its creative ambition. Soul and salsa blended together, while the music purposefully connected to its South Beach site. Gloria Estefan, electric in her home city, opened with “Oye.” Stevie Wonder made extra headlines for his entrance — the “ young, gifted and blind ” drove a car to join in the jam. There was a swing band (Big Bad Voodoo Daddy), plus a tap dancer (Savion Glover).
It shouldn’t have worked. It totally did. Most of the late ’90s cross-genre shows came off as overcrowded or inorganic. But in Miami, the co-stars did duets on each other’s hits with warm synchronicity. Swing revival was in effect, and we were all better for it.
What everyone was talking about: The now-infamous ending.
There were other performers at this halftime in Houston, from Nelly to Jessica Simpson. But of course, the Janet-Justin moment was what endured. It coined the term “ wardrobe malfunction .” It inspired the creation of YouTube . It was societal obsession that now deserves reappraisal.
By 2004, Janet Jackson had released five multi-platinum albums. She was the show’s headliner. Justin Timberlake was far younger, less than two years into his solo career. The former ‘N Sync frontman was a surprise guest at the Super Bowl set. “Rock Your Body” ended with exposed skin, then exploded phone lines. A “ where were you when…” ripple in time. The staggering fallout ranged from late-night monologues to Supreme Court appeals, but only Jackson was blacklisted around the industry.
From the NYT archive:
“If there was anything more bizarre than the sudden baring of Janet Jackson’s breast during the Super Bowl halftime show, it was the hyperbolic reaction that followed. The whole fuss began to seem like a sequel to some Philip Roth novella — ‘The Breast That Ate the Super Bowl.’
A lawyer in Knoxville, Tenn., filed a class action suit claiming that victims who watched the show experienced ‘outrage, anger, embarrassment and serious injury.’ CBS was flooded with protest calls. The Federal Communications Commission received 200,000 calls and e-mail messages and opened an investigation.” — Alessandra Stanley , a week after the performance and its controversy.
What everyone was talking about: “Hey Jude.”
A trace of Beatlemania in football felt historic and unique. The forerunner of British Invasion took the summit of American entertainment, which was a huge deal across generations. Not all water cooler topics are generated from shock — sometimes, we acknowledge that “ na na na na na na na ” was wailed in unison, and how awesome it was.
“I want to hear everybody in the world sing,” Paul McCartney shouted from his piano. The prior year was a flashpoint, but just about every sentient being came to an agreement here.
From the NYT archive:
“Sir Paul was the biggest winner at the game. Charlie Weis already had his gig with Notre Dame, and everybody heard Romeo Crennel was going to Cleveland, but after McCartney did four of his songs on worldwide television, his CD’s leaped toward the top of Amazon’s Movers & Shakers list. McCartney looked so spry for an elder that any day now he will probably signal his interest in the Knicks’ job.” — George Vecsey , on Sir Paul’s performance (McCartney has yet to coach the Knicks).
What everyone was talking about: “ Purple Rain .”
We watched it happen on TV, but it still sounded like an urban myth, some perfectly timed paisley folklore. “ Prince played ‘Purple Rain’ and it actually rained, ” spread in school hallways and office break rooms. To that point, no Super Bowl ever dealt with mid-game precipitation. At halftime, steady drizzle turned to downpour. Skies were widest when the finale reached its guitar solo. Essential showmanship and eternal coolness.
On this day in 2007, Prince performed a medley of hits at the Super Bowl XLI Halftime show in Miami, including “Let’s Go Crazy,” “Baby I’m A Star,” “1999” and covers of “Proud Mary,” “All Along The Watchtower,” and “Best of You.” The 12-minute show concluded with a legendary… pic.twitter.com/aqXCgXIwsa
— Prince (@prince) February 4, 2024
What everyone was talking about: Bey, Kelly and Michelle.
There’s an event horizon around all Beyoncé marquees, so the Destiny’s Child reunion was a limited-edition moment within a moment. The group disbanded in 2005, but former collaborators Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams joined back up for “Bootylicious” and “Independent Women Part I.” They even did the “Single Ladies” dance in support of their headliner. Though it wasn’t what actually knocked out the Superdome lights , this propulsive halftime brought the house down and dominated the timeline. Confirmed: No one was ready for that jelly .
When @Beyonce reunited @destinyschild at #SBXLVII …👸🐝🙏🔥 pic.twitter.com/KUplon98AA
— NFL (@NFL) February 2, 2020
What everyone was talking about: Left Shark.
Let it be known that this performance had wire-to-wire memetic potential. There was the 26-foot gold lion robot used in “Roar,” and the 3D chess board dance floor during “Dark Horse.” A “Firework” set piece looked like NBC’s “The More You Know” logo. Tom Brokaw did not appear, but Missy Elliott did, and then Perry added ad-libs for “Get Ur Freak On.”
None of that crossed into internet nirvana, though. Passage was reserved for but one off-beat backup dancer, the least funky fish of all time. An inflatable beach design put the pop singer alongside two costumed sharks. The live stumbles of Left Shark went viral and spawned jokes in record quickness.
What everyone was talking about: The baby-bump announcement.
The show built buzz from its earliest frames. Rihanna hadn’t performed live music in four years as she approached that Super Bowl Sunday. Her 2016 album, “Anti,” was the centerpiece of year-end lists and Billboard charts. Then … fade to black. Rihanna’s 2023 return had real permanence no matter what. And as the camera quickly revealed her pregnancy, a legend was complete. Her partner, A$AP Rocky, beamed from the crowd while she hit acrobatic, physical choreography. “ Like diamonds in the sky .”
A post shared by NFL (@nfl)
What everyone was talking about: “Not Like Us,” and whether Drake would respond to the Super Bowl sleeper hold.
It wasn’t that long ago, but the canon runs deep. Samuel L. Jackson gave national marching orders as Uncle Sam. Serena Williams went hyperlocal with a Compton c-walk. “ Muuustaaard ” became a panoramic rallying cry. Amid his galactic rap beef for the soul of the art form , and as threat of a lawsuit rushed toward him, Kendrick Lamar proudly crested into “Not Like Us.” What a banger. The Super Bowl’s first hip-hop halftime solo split the uprights.
A post shared by NFL (@nfl)
You can watch NFL games and other live sports on Fubo ( Stream Free Now ).
Streaming links in this article are provided by partners of The Athletic . Restrictions may apply. The Athletic maintains full editorial independence. Partners have no control over or input into the reporting or editing process, and do not review stories before publication.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Steven Louis Goldstein is a Staff Writer for The Athletic. He lives in Los Angeles and graduated from Northwestern University.