article_id: nyt_133
url: https://www.nytimes.com/international/section/theater?page=2
title: Theater
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
By transmitting his love of live performance, the “Just in Time” actor has completed his ascendance to full musical stardom.
By Ben Brantley and Mohamed Sadek
The actor Chadwick Boseman was a playwright, too. At Shakespeare’s Globe in London, his “Deep Azure” is drawing attention to a lost talent inspired by the Bard.
The two musicals secured 11 nominations each for Britain’s equivalent of the Tony Awards. Cate Blanchett, Bryan Cranston and Rachel Zegler are also among the nominees.
Hugh Jackman returns in “Sexual Misconduct of the Middle Classes,” Jesse Tyler Ferguson plays Truman Capote, and Celia Keenan-Bolger and Tony Shalhoub star in an “Antigone” riff.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Hamnet, Hamlet and Oscar Wao: Three Lost Boys Across Time
In the stage versions of two beloved books, the most impressive moments emerge when the productions stray from the source material.
‘Night Side Songs’ Review: Feel Free to Sing Along
The Lazours’ intimate new musical about illness and mortality is also about finding solace in other people, and in art.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
For a Lesbian Twist on ‘Cyrano,’ They Enlisted an Indigo Girl
Opening a decade after “Fun Home” debuted on Broadway, the new musical “Starstruck” has a lesbian protagonist and a female creative team. That still seems radical.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
‘Bigfoot!’ Review: An Ogre Who Just Wants to Be Friends
The new musical from the comedian Amber Ruffin has a wholesome moral and silliness in spades.
‘Chinese Republicans’ Review: These Women Are Playing to Win
Alex Lin’s new play focuses on four ambitious climbers of the corporate ladder. But their success comes at what cost?
With her frenetic energy and 4-foot-10 frame, Ms. Lee seemed destined to play a certain kind of stage character: excitable, endearing and charmingly scheming.
In Aya Ogawa’s compassionate, sharply comical play, the pastel-pink public image of mommyhood doesn’t stand a chance.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
For eight weeks this spring, the popular rapper will be featured as a nightclub impresario in “Moulin Rouge! The Musical.”
Lauren Yee’s boisterous play “Mother Russia,” about the origins of the contemporary oligarchy, has its roots in her San Francisco childhood.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Clare Barron’s gorgeous play, about an unmoored young woman returning home to care for her father, finds a new home at Cherry Lane Theater.
A strong cast stars in Lauren Yee’s new play, part of a cycle of works about the collisions between 20th-century communism, capitalism and pop culture.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
This bio play about Marcel Marceau, which delves into his part in the French Resistance, stars Ethan Slater (yes, that’s Boq from the “Wicked” movies).
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Phanésia Pharel’s wistful two-hander starring Patrice Johnson Chevannes and Natalie Paul looks at a Haitian American family and questions of legacy.
An Oscar nominee for a movie in which everything crashes down on her (literally), Byrne is shifting gears with the Broadway comedy “Fallen Angels.”
By Leah Greenblatt and Sam Hellmann
With “The Lost Boys” on Broadway and Cynthia Erivo in “Dracula” in London, our horror expert looks at how bloodsuckers sank their teeth into pop culture.
The German actor Lars Eidinger lost control of the weapon in the final scene of Shakespeare’s play.
By Christopher F. Schuetze
Plays about addiction are filling Manhattan stages this month, depicting very different places on the recovery spectrum, from harrowing to serene.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
The Marvel alumni will star in Jamie Lloyd’s mischievous take on Shakespeare’s comedy.
He created sets and lighting for dozens of productions, including “Long Day’s Journey Into Night,” and established a new art form with his theater of the deaf, combining sign and spoken language.
The “Wicked” actress plays 23 roles in a one-woman show on London’s West End.
Without the usual flood of new musicals, the playwrights of works like “Becky Shaw,” “Dog Day Afternoon” and “Giant” are getting a chance to shine.
Onstage, “Cats: The Jellicle Ball” and Adrien Brody in “The Fear of 13.” Plus: Cardi B goes on tour, Lise Davidsen takes on Isolde at the Met, 100 years of Martha Graham and more.
Across the country, a flurry of theater productions, including “Black Swan” and “The Lunchbox,” are mining the movies for material.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Kathleen Chalfant, Elizabeth Marvel, April Matthis and other actors deliver top-notch performances in a play that leaves questions unanswered.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
The Tony winner returns to the stage in “Every Brilliant Thing,” an interactive monologue with a message of hope “that might be vital for somebody to hear.”
By Michael Paulson and Lucia Bell-Epstein
Stay on top of the top-grossing Broadway shows, recent reviews, Critics’ Picks and more.