article_id: nyt_143
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/skylight-calendar-review/
title: I Tested a $300 Digital Calendar to Ease My Mental Load. Now Even My 10-Year-Old Helps Out.
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Ellen Lee is a writer focused on baby and kid gear. She has smashed Cheerios and milk and let them fester in nearly 50 diaper bags… for journalism.
In the household of my dreams, my home is immaculate. The laundry is washed, folded, and put away. The kitchen is stocked, tidy, and spotless. Our lives move in sync, ebbing and flowing in perfect harmony. Family time, play dates, exercise, homework, chores, outdoor time, community organizing — check, check, check.
A mom can dream. In reality, managing a household of five is a lot messier. My husband and I have three kids, ages 10, 15, and 17, and that means we’re constantly juggling orthodontist appointments, summer-camp signups, field trips, and track tournaments. The laundry and the dishes? Sometimes they pile up.
All of it takes a toll, and I’m not alone in this. The “ mental load ” is well documented, with women and mothers often bearing much of it. (Take this one statistic: According to one analysis of U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data, mothers with children ages 12 and under would collectively earn $450 billion a year if they were paid for the time they spend caring for their children.)
This is probably why I’ve heard so much buzz about the Skylight Calendar , the Hearth Display , the Cozyla Calendar , and others — both from parents in my community and as a parenting journalist for Wirecutter. They promise a “digital command center” in the form of an elegant, color-coded, touchscreen calendar that the entire family can interact with.
“Get your family working as a team,” says Skylight’s marketing. “Designed to take things off your plate,” promises Hearth. Perhaps it could even save marriages .
Skylight (the one I hear the most about from fellow parents) loaned me a calendar so I could try it out for myself. For the past three months, I’ve had its 15-inch screen propped up on my kitchen counter. I linked it to my family’s Google calendars, created grocery lists, assigned chores and tasks, and set up rewards for fulfilling them. In just the short time I’ve used it, the Skylight Calendar has helped streamline my family’s schedule, setting clear, color-coded expectations and encouraging everyone to have a role in managing our home. My 10-year-old even reminded me about his upcoming orthodontist appointment.
This interactive calendar creates a color-coded display of your family’s schedule, grocery lists, and chores. The additional Plus Plan includes a photo slideshow, rewards, meal planning, and the ability to easily import new events.
The Skylight Calendar is essentially a touchscreen smart display, and anyone in the family can use it for everything from swiping through the calendar to viewing the day’s schedule to adding items to the grocery list. It’s paired with an app, and through this app the parent or caregiver can manage schedules, lists, and other features, and they can access everything on the go.
The calendar comes in three sizes (I have the 15-inch version; there’s also a mega-size, 27-inch version and a smaller, 10-inch one). And it looks like a large tablet or a digital picture frame. It can be mounted on a wall or propped up on a countertop or tabletop (I did the latter because I lacked wall space with a nearby power source).
The first step I took was to integrate my Google Calendar with the Skylight Calendar. (It also works with Apple’s iCloud calendar and Microsoft Outlook , though not as well with the latter.) Each person in my family was assigned a color, so on the busiest days, the calendar looks like a rainbow grid. One of the most useful features is that it syncs both ways: If someone adds an event to the Skylight Calendar, it automatically shows up in your Google Calendar (and vice versa).
But the perks that come with the Plus Plan ($79 a year) are what make the Skylight Calendar worthwhile, setting it apart from competitors. Those perks include a feature called “ magic import ”: I can forward a birthday-party invite (or any message with an event) to my designated Skylight email address, and it will automatically be added to the calendar. Likewise, when my child’s school handed out a list of important dates, I took a photo of the list and sent it to the Skylight email address, and it was populated onto our schedules. I can also send photos to the Skylight email address, and they will play as a slideshow when the calendar is in standby.
Here’s another handy Plus Plan feature (particularly since the calendar is already sitting on my kitchen counter): I’ve imported some of my favorite recipes, so I can easily access them from the Skylight Calendar. It can add recipes from photos or transfer them from a blog, stripping them down to the ingredients and steps without the extra fluff and backstory. (It can also help you create a meal plan ; this is a feature I didn’t fully utilize.)
For families that include children, I’ve found that the Skylight Calendar is especially useful with elementary-school-age kids. Children in this age group generally don’t have their own smartphones, but their lives are getting busier. With Skylight, they can navigate the calendar and view their schedules, chores, and routines. Kids in this age group are also more likely to be motivated by rewards (another snazzy Plus Plan feature). Kids can earn stars for completing chores. For instance, my 10-year-old receives a star for cleaning up the table after dinner. And then kids can redeem stars for prizes, like a pack of Pokémon cards or extra screen time. (Note: Assigning tasks and chores is free and included with the calendar; creating a menu of rewards is included with the Plus Plan.)
My 10-year-old has been my family’s most enthusiastic user. He checks the calendar daily, monitoring the stars he’s accumulated and noting any upcoming appointments. He knows when a parent will be out of town (and he no longer has to ask every day when that parent will return). And he remembers that he has piano lessons on Tuesdays. Also, by using the calendar’s countdown feature , he knows exactly how many days there are until his birthday.
I’ve started thinking of the Skylight Calendar as a second brain or, as my 10-year-old calls it, a “remembering system.” We dump in grocery lists and other shared household needs, like refilling the parchment paper. When my 10-year-old needed to learn his lines for a musical-theater show, I added that to his tasks, so he knew to prioritize practicing each day. The best part is that I’m not the only one keeping track of these details; everyone can easily add to the calendar. (My 10-year-old constantly adds his favorite instant ramen to our grocery list, just so we don’t forget.)
The calendar can also be handy for people in the sandwich generation who are caring for aging family members. In our piece on how caregivers stay organized , Kat Carney (who cares for her 84-year-old mother and her 91-year-old father outside of Atlanta) discusses using the Skylight Calendar to coordinate checklists, meal plans, and appointments with her parents and their caregivers. “Now when my dad asks me something, I just point to the calendar. When the home health aid asks me, I point to the calendar,” she said. “It’s not overtaxing my brain.”
But, as with most technology, with this calendar I did face some technical glitches. One time, the app crashed when I was at the store trying to check my list. Another time, the “ magic import ” didn’t seamlessly transfer an event to the calendar. And at some point, my son figured out that he could reward himself with stars — without having to complete the actual chore. These aren’t dealbreakers, and fortunately there’s an unofficial Facebook group that shares ideas, hacks, and troubleshooting.
One of the frequent questions I’m asked is how the Skylight Calendar and other digital calendar startups compare to those of the behemoths, Google and Amazon. Both Google and Amazon offer devices with smart screens that can handle some of the same tasks, and they don’t require an annual subscription.
The Google Nest Hub and Amazon Echo Show devices allow you to see a photo slideshow and your calendar.
But the calendars are not the main feature of these smart screens; instead they share the space with the weather and other apps. Although you can zero in on their calendars, you won’t get the same colorful, organized big-picture visualization of your family’s schedule that you get with the Skylight Calendar.
A smart screen is a “multitasker,” said Rachel Cericola, who wrote Wirecutter’s guide to smart speakers and other smart-home devices. “A smart screen is more for people who want to call up recipes and watch videos and listen to music and know what the weather is. The calendar is a portion of what it does.”
When it comes to managing your family’s schedule, the Skylight Calendar is much more straightforward to use than a standard smart screen. With a standard smart screen, you add or update events using either your voice (which I’m not a huge fan of) or the Google Home or Alexa app (which your family members can’t easily access). That sense of collaboration and everyone being part of the household solution? It’s not the aim of a smart screen.
Smart screens have other potential drawbacks, too. On both the Amazon Echo Show and the Google Nest Hub, you can access YouTube, Hulu, and Netflix, and this can create unnecessary temptation for families trying to limit screen time. (You can enable parental controls, but we’ve been generally unimpressed. For instance, the Amazon Kids+ subscription, which is designed to filter content, still blasted explicit lyrics in our testing .)
The Skylight Calendar, by contrast, is locked down. There’s no way for kids to sneak on and access the internet (one of the first things my 10-year-old tried to do). Skylight also doesn’t come with a microphone, so there isn’t a way for you to talk to it. It does have a speaker that can chime to alert you of an upcoming event, but it’s challenging to customize (for example, I wasn’t able to set a 10-minute reminder for one event and a 30-minute reminder for another).
Skylight said there’s no way for the calendar to listen in on you , as some people rightfully fear with smart devices. But, as with most apps, it does collect and save some data . Skylight said it protects that data and doesn’t use it for advertising.
“Skylight is not designed to surveil family activity,” said Skylight president Aviv Gilboa in an email.
Ultimately, in order for the calendar to work, your entire family needs to buy into it, and frankly it can be a challenge to make this happen. My husband and two teenagers have not been as avid as my 10-year-old. They already have their own smartphones, and they manage their own calendars. And arguably the whole family doesn’t need to know the minutiae of their schedules (chemistry tests, client meetings, and so forth).
Sometimes the Skylight Calendar feels more like a beautiful, expensive digital photo frame, fading into the background of my family’s minds. I still remind everyone about doctor’s appointments, school pickups, and carpool schedules. And I still really love jotting down notes in my paper planner. I’m also not a fan of paying for yet another annual subscription.
But I know I’ll miss the Skylight Calendar after I return my testing unit to the company, so I’m considering purchasing it for my family. It sparked hope. If my family were to spend more time using the Skylight Calender, maybe it would become a habit. And maybe I’d be closer to my fantasy of having it all together.
The other night, I sensed a breakthrough of sorts. As I was shuttling my teenage daughter home, she rattled off the dance rehearsals she needed to attend the following week.
“You know what you could do…,” I began.
“I know,” she said. “I can add it to the calendar.”
This article was edited by Catherine Kast and Kalee Thompson.
My focus includes school gear such as water bottles and backpacks, technology such as kids smartwatches and parental controls, and gifts for kids.
Of more than 20 to-do list apps we considered, Todoist is the best at adapting to your daily life instead of making you adapt to it.
by Jackie Reeve, Kaitlyn Wells, and Melanie Pinola
A great planner makes you feel great about crossing items off your to-do list. These seven standouts come in a range of styles to meet a variety of preferences.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).