article_id: nyt_146
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7067868/2026/02/27/college-football-power-4-coach-predictions-2030/
title: Who will be coaching your school in 2030? Predicting every Power 4 football program’s head man
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Illustration: Demetrius Robinson / The Athletic; Photos: iStock
OK, let’s establish right off the top that as we strive to both entertain and inform here at The Athletic , this particular thought exercise leans much harder toward the former.
The idea: Project the head coach for each Power 4 school, plus Notre Dame , in 2030. A truly impossible task but, when you dive headlong down the rabbit hole, also a pretty fun one.
In college football years, five seasons from now might as well be a lifetime. I mean, somebody I know thought Auburn made a better hire with Bryan Harsin in 2021 than Tennessee did with Josh Heupel.
Heading into 2026, the average tenure of the 68 Power 4 head coaches is 4.75 seasons. Yes, that includes 15 just-hired coaches, but if you remove from the sample set Kirk Ferentz, who is about to coach his 28th season at Iowa, that average drops to just under 4.5 seasons.
Go back to 2021, and you’ll find 19 power conference head coaches in the same place they started that season.
Only 13 P4 coaches (19 percent) are set to enter the upcoming season in at least their seventh year with their current school. Among those are Florida State’s Mike Norvell, Baylor’s Dave Aranda and Maryland’s Mike Locksley, who have maybe the three hottest seats in the country.
We’re five years and two hires removed from LSU firing Ed Orgeron less than two full seasons after winning the 2019 national title. Brian Kelly, Orgeron’s replacement, didn’t last four full seasons. Now Lane Kiffin, whose four previous college head coaching tenures averaged three and a half seasons, takes over in Baton Rouge.
Kiffin’s career is a study on how the trajectory of a coach can rapidly rise and fall, another reason why projecting five seasons out is so difficult.
How about this: Five seasons before Ryan Day replaced Urban Meyer as head coach at Ohio State, he was the offensive coordinator for a 7-6 Boston College team.
Life comes at you fast in college football, though with the cost of paying players rising, some schools are showing a little more patience with their head coaches. With that in mind, we have most of this year’s new hires making it to 2030.
Putting this puzzle together required answering a series of questions, each more difficult than the next: Will this coach do well enough in the next four seasons to keep the job he has? Will he do well enough to get a better job? What is a better job in 2030?
We considered previous ties to schools and, to some small extent, the athletic director who might be hiring the next coach. But those AD positions are also becoming more volatile.
We included some coaches who probably wouldn’t get much more than a glance for a head coaching job this year but who have already built up some buzz in the industry.
And, because it was fun, we made some choices just to get a rise out of you.
Current: Bill O’Brien (Year 3) 2030: Kyle Flood, Texas offensive coordinator
Flood’s tenure as Rutgers head coach came to a messy end with NCAA violations, but if the Longhorns can establish themselves as consistent national title contenders, he should get a second chance as a head coach in the Northeast.
Current: Tosh Lupoi (Year 1) 2030: Lupoi
There has been buzz around the Bears since Lupoi was named head coach of his alma mater in December. Cal also tends to have a lot of patience with its coaches. The Bears’ concern is Lupoi does too well too fast and becomes a candidate for a bigger job.
Current: Dabo Swinney (Year 19) 2030: Rhett Lashlee, SMU head coach
This is a complicated time to assess both Swinney and Clemson, with the program coming off its worst season in almost two decades. Lashlee seems like a perfect fit, but there is a very real question about whether Clemson would be a clear upgrade from SMU for him.
Current: Manny Diaz (Year 3) 2030: Jeff Farris, Austin Peay coach
The 35-year-old Farris played and coached at Duke and is coming off a solid season in his second year as a head coach at the FCS level.
Current: Mike Norvell (Year 7) 2030: Kenny Dillingham, Arizona State head coach
The 35-year-old Dillingham is positioned to be maybe the hottest candidate in the upcoming hiring cycle, and Florida State could be the best job available. It seems like a match, though convincing Dillingham to leave his alma mater won’t be easy. He was FSU’s offensive coordinator in 2020-21.
Current: Brent Key (Year 5) 2030: Buster Faulkner, Florida offensive coordinator
We’re about to get some insight into how much of Key’s success at Georgia Tech over the past four seasons was attributable to the 44-year-old Faulkner, who joined Jon Sumrall’s new staff at Florida.
Current: Jeff Brohm (Year 4) 2030: Brohm
Brohm is Louisville football, and it’s going to be hard to pull him out of there.
Current: Mario Cristobal (Year 5) 2030: Cristobal
It feels like Cristobal is just getting started at his alma mater.
Current: Bill Belichick (Year 2) 2030: Corey Hetherman, Miami defensive coordinator
Based on the assumption that North Carolina is going to be looking for a new coach by December, Hetherman should be a hot commodity among coordinators after transforming The U’s defense.
Current: Dave Doeren (Year 14) 2030: Shannon Dawson, Miami offensive coordinator
Dawson has been in the mix for the top job at West Virginia and Tulane, but if the Hurricanes keep making runs at national titles, the 48-year-old’s first head coaching job could be better than that.
Current: Pat Narduzzi (Year 12) 2030: Mike Shanahan, Indiana offensive coordinator
The former Pitt wide receiver and Pennsylvania native seems destined to be a head coach soon, and Narduzzi’s contract runs through 2030. This was one of the easier matches to make.
Current: Rhett Lashlee (Year 5) 2030: Josh Heupel, Tennessee head coach
Heupel has done a great job pulling Tennessee out of a ditch, but expectations are sky-high throughout the SEC. SMU is a great spot for a successful coach to reset his clock.
Current: Tavita Pritchard (Year 1) 2030: Pritchard
It’s unclear where Stanford football is heading under general manager Andrew Luck, but he seems likely to give his former backup quarterback Pritchard a fair amount of time to prove himself.
Current: Fran Brown (Year 3) 2030: Tony White, Florida State defensive coordinator
White is a former Syracuse defensive coordinator whose career trajectory took a hit last season in Tallahassee, but there is still time for him to re-establish himself. But let’s talk about the current coach and the wild swings in the coaching stock market. After a 10-win debut at Syracuse in 2024, Brown, a former Georgia assistant and Matt Rhule protege, seemed destined for an SEC head coaching job in the not-too-distant future. Now, coming off a three-win follow-up and with the athletic director that hired him at Syracuse heading for retirement, he’s probably another losing season away from the hot seat. The fall from rising star to coaching for your job can be one quarterback injury away.
Current: Tony Elliott (Year 5) 2030: Anthony Poindexter, Tennessee co-defensive coordinator
Coming off a breakthrough season, pencil Elliott in for a few more years in Charlottesville — just long enough for the former Cavaliers All-American Poindexter to get a little more seasoning and step into the head coach’s chair at his alma mater.
Current: James Franklin (Year 1) 2030: Franklin
Whether the former Penn State head coach can bring Frank Beamer-level success back to Blacksburg remains to be seen, but it’s a safe bet he gets at least five years to make it work.
Current: Jake Dickert (Year 2) 2030: Vince Kehres, Syracuse defensive coordinator
Kehres won two Division III national titles as head coach at Mount Union after taking over for his Hall of Fame father, Larry Kehres, and is coming off a successful stint as Toledo’s defensive coordinator. Add some P4 success, and he’ll be a head coach candidate in the next five years.
Current: Brent Brennan (Year 3) 2030: Marcus Arroyo, Arizona State offensive coordinator
Arroyo started getting UNLV pointed in the right direction before an AD change led to his firing. The AD who hired him at UNLV? Desireé Reed-Francois, who is now at Arizona.
Current: Kenny Dillingham (Year 4) 2030: Dan Mullen, UNLV head coach
Mullen found a good spot to return to coaching at UNLV last year, and his record at Mississippi State and Florida warrants another Power 4 job if he wants it.
Current: Dave Aranda (Year 7) 2030: G.J. Kinne, Texas State head coach
Kinne hasn’t yet had the big breakthrough season at Texas State, but Baylor hiring a Texan with a reputation for building explosive offenses makes too much sense.
Current: Kalani Sitake (Year 11) 2030: Jason Beck, Michigan offensive coordinator
The former BYU quarterback and assistant coach has already become one of the most sought-after coordinators in the country.
Current: Scott Satterfield (Year 4) 2030: Luke Fickell, Wisconsin head coach
We couldn’t resist a reunion.
Current: Deion Sanders (Year 4) 2030: Kenny Guiton, Wisconsin quarterbacks coach
Good luck forecasting when and how Sanders’ time in Boulder will end. Colorado has a new AD in Fernando Lovo, who has strong ties to Urban Meyer. Guiton, who played for Meyer at Ohio State, is a well-thought-of young coach.
Current: Willie Fritz (Year 3) 2030: Tremaine Jackson, Prairie View A&M head coach
Unless you’re Deion Sanders, there is no track record of going from an HBCU to a Power 4 job. Maybe Jackson will need a stop along the way, but he enters 2026 with a 50-16 record as a head coach, including stints at Division II Colorado Mesa and Valdosta State before Prairie View in the SWAC last year.
Current: Jimmy Rogers (Year 1) 2030: Matt Entz, Fresno State head coach
Rogers could turn out to be a star, but historically, Iowa State is a tough job. Entz, an Iowa native who won two FCS titles as head coach at North Dakota State, gets his first P4 head coach gig in Ames.
Current: Lance Leipold (Year 6) 2030: Andy Kotelnicki, Kansas offensive coordinator
Kotelnicki returned to KU as offensive coordinator after a two-year stint at Penn State that included some P4 head coaching interest. The 61-year-old Leipold hands it off to him by 2030.
Current: Collin Klein (Year 1) 2030: Klein
The former Wildcats star quarterback takes over a program that needs a boost, not a massive rebuild. Klein is more likely to raise his profile and become a candidate for a bigger post than to fail at his alma mater in four years.
Current: Eric Morris (Year 1) 2030: Brent Venables, Oklahoma head coach
Venables has alternated 10-win and six-win seasons since arriving in Norman. It still feels a bit tenuous, not so much that he’ll flame out as much as he’ll never quite max out, but he’ll leave with a resume that still makes him an appealing P4 candidate — elsewhere in the state.
Current: Sonny Dykes (Year 5) 2030: Ra’Shaad Samples, Oregon running backs coach
Samples is only 31 but has already worked for Sean McVay with the Rams, Kenny Dillingham at Arizona State and Dan Lanning at Oregon. He’s a Dallas native and the son of Reginald Samples, a highly successful Texas high school coach. His ties in East Texas run deep.
Current: Joey McGuire (Year 5) 2030: Lincoln Riley, USC head coach
Riley’s four years at USC have felt unsatisfying for everyone involved, but the two sides are also kind of stuck with each other because of his massive contract. Texas Tech could have the money and motivation to provide an off-ramp and bring Riley back home to Lubbock.
Current: Scott Frost (Year 2) 2030: Willie Simmons, FIU head coach
Simmons, a Tallahassee native and former Florida A&M coach, broke a five-year bowl drought in his first season at FIU. We might be selling him short. Maybe he should be the next Florida State coach?
Current: Morgan Scalley (Year 1) 2030: Scalley
Continuity hires can be hit-or-miss, but the guess here is Utah’s stability and culture make Scalley’s tenure a success after he succeeded Kyle Whittingham.
Current: Rich Rodriguez (Year 2) 2030: Ben Arbuckle, Oklahoma offensive coordinator
Arbuckle, 30, began last season as the youngest offensive coordinator in the P4.
Current: Curt Cignetti (Year 3) 2030: Cignetti
With a recent raise to $13.2 million per year , where’s he going?
Current: Bret Bielema (Year 6) 2030: Bielema
I could absolutely see Bielema, 56, retiring with the Illini.
Current: Kirk Ferentz (Year 28) 2030: LeVar Woods, Michigan State special teams coach
Ferentz would be 76 at the start of the 2030 season. Don’t rule out that he’s still coaching the Hawkeyes. Woods is one of a few Ferentz disciples who has long been speculated to be a possible successor. After nearly 20 years on Ferentz’s staff, he left his alma mater a few months ago to work for Pat Fitzgerald. A return to Iowa City to sit in the big chair wouldn’t be surprising at all.
Current: Mike Locksley (Year 9) 2030: D’Anton Lynn, Penn State defensive coordinator
Lynn made the move back to his alma mater to work for Matt Campbell after doing a solid job of cleaning up USC’s defense.
Current: Kyle Whittingham (Year 1) 2030: Bob Chesney, UCLA head coach
Maybe the hardest call on the board. Chesney has star qualities. But UCLA is also a tough job. If he can find the formula for success there, he could end up on the short list for just about any job in the country. Otherwise, Westwood might end up being a career speed bump. This pairing is a bet that he figures it out.
Current: Pat Fitzgerald (Year 1) 2030: Max Bullough, Michigan State defensive coordinator
We’re a little skeptical of Fitz’s second act. This might be an aggressive timetable for the former Michigan State linebacker to become the head coach of his alma mater, but the Bullough family is football royalty in East Lansing.
Current: P.J. Fleck (Year 10) 2030: Bryant Haines, Indiana defensive coordinator
Haines was hard to place because on one hand the Broyles Award winner seems on track to land a head coaching job as soon as this year. On the other, the P4 market might be a bit slow this cycle.
Current: Matt Rhule (Year 4) 2030: Jake Dickert, Wake Forest head coach
Dickert’s first season at Wake Forest produced a surprising nine wins. After an impressive stint under difficult circumstances at Washington State, the 42-year-old Wisconsin native has “future Big Ten coach” written all over him.
Current: David Braun (Year 4) 2030: Dave Clawson, former Wake Forest head coach
Clawson interviewed with Northwestern when Braun was the interim, following the messy dismissal of Pat Fitzgerald. When he stepped down at Wake after the 2024 season, the 58-year-old Clawson insisted he wasn’t done but also was not desperate to get back in. This would be a good fit if it comes open fairly soon.
Current: Ryan Day (Year 8) 2030: James Laurinaitis, Ohio State linebackers coach
Since Woody Hayes’ 28-year tenure ended in 1978, no Ohio State coach has held the job more than 13 seasons (John Cooper). Laurinaitis, a former Buckeyes All-American and NFL player, could be in the mix for some lower-profile head coaching jobs this year and primed to take over at his alma mater after Day knocks out a second national title and gives the NFL another shot.
Current: Dan Lanning (Year 5) 2030: Lanning
Lanning might have the best job in the country. Good luck getting him out of Eugene.
Current: Matt Campbell (Year 1) 2030: Campbell
This one sure feels like it should work out for both sides.
Current: Barry Odom (Year 2) 2030: Odom
Odom is a good coach, and although we’re not expecting the Boilermakers to suddenly make an Indiana-like transformation, it wouldn’t be surprising if he stabilizes the program enough to get to a sixth season in West Lafayette.
Current: Greg Schiano (Year 7) 2030: Anthony Campanile, Jacksonville Jaguars defensive coordinator
P.J. Fleck might have been the better call here, especially because successful NFL coaches these days are not exactly dying to get back to college football. Still, we’ll take a shot on Campanile as Schiano’s successor. He is a former Rutgers player and coach and part of a family with deep ties and experience in New Jersey high school football.
Current: Bob Chesney (Year 1) 2030: P.J. Fleck, Minnesota head coach
Fleck is a fascinating case study. He has done an undeniably good job in his decade at Minnesota. You have to go back to the first half of the 1900s to find a Gophers football coach with a better winning percentage than Fleck’s .600. But he has cracked double-digit wins with the Gophers only once, in 2019. He has given Minnesota no reason to fire him while also never really positioning himself as a hot candidate for a potential upgrade.
Current: Lincoln Riley (Year 5) 2030: Kalen DeBoer, Alabama head coach
Two seasons into DeBoer’s time at Alabama, it certainly hasn’t been bad. But it hasn’t quite clicked. If Jen Cohen is still USC’s AD when (if) the Trojans’ job comes up, expect her to make a run at the coach who worked out so well for her at Washington.
Current: Jedd Fisch (Year 3) 2030: Kalani Sitake, BYU head coach
Sitake nearly took the Penn State job last year, but the connection to his alma mater was too strong to break — especially while the Cougars were still in the Playoff hunt. He’d be a good fit in the Pacific Northwest wing of the Big Ten.
Current: Luke Fickell (Year 4) 2030: Jason Eck, New Mexico head coach
The Wisconsin native and former Badgers offensive lineman seems to be on a collision course with a return to Madison after winning a share of the Mountain West regular season title last year with one of the most extensively overhauled rosters in the FBS .
Current: Kalen DeBoer (Year 3) 2030: Jon Sumrall, Florida head coach
Is Alabama a better job than Florida in the current state of college football? Maybe not. But we do love SEC coaching drama, and the Gators’ new head man jumping from one powerhouse to another in the next three or four seasons would be riveting theater.
Current: Ryan Silverfield (Year 1) 2030: Jerry Mack, Kennesaw State head coach
The Conference USA-to-SEC jump seems like a lot, and maybe Mack, who is from Memphis and played at Arkansas State, will need a stop in between before moving into the SEC.
Current: Alex Golesh (Year 1) 2030: Golesh
Golesh is Auburn’s third coach since it fired Gus Malzahn after the 2020 season. The odds alone suggest this hire will work out better than the last two (Bryan Harsin, Hugh Freeze).
Current: Jon Sumrall (Year 1) 2030: Jedd Fisch, Washington head coach
Fisch was on the radar at Florida this winter. He’s a good coach and an adept climber of the career ladder. We think he has at least one more step up in him.
Current: Kirby Smart (Year 11) 2030: Smart
No reason to overthink this.
Current: Will Stein (Year 1) 2030: Brian Hartline, USF head coach
With the American’s current lineup, USF seems like a good launching pad for Hartline to land a P4 job in three or four years.
Current: Lane Kiffin (Year 1) 2030: Kiffin
Kiffin’s next step if he is successful at LSU is probably the NFL, but we’ll bet the 50-year-old gets to a fifth year in Baton Rouge before that.
Current: Jeff Lebby (Year 3) 2030: Charles Huff, Memphis head coach
The last three Memphis coaches were hired away by Virginia Tech, Florida State and Arkansas. Huff, who was an assistant at Mississippi State, has positioned himself well to be the next coach to go from Memphis to the P4.
Current: Eliah Drinkwitz (Year 7) 2030: Blake Baker, LSU defensive coordinator
Baker returns to Mizzou for his first head coaching job after helping Lane Kiffin reach a Playoff or two.
Current: Brent Venables (Year 5) 2030: Eliah Drinkwitz, Missouri head coach
Timing is everything in life. If there had been as much coaching movement in 2024 (after Drinkwitz knocked out a second straight double-digit-victory season at Mizzou), maybe he would already be in a new gig. We think he’s got another big season in him, and it will align with the Sooners heading back to the market.
Current: Pete Golding (Year 1) 2030: Charlie Weis Jr., LSU offensive coordinator
It was tempting to slide Weis in at Notre Dame, where his father’s tenure famously ended with one of college football’s first whopping buyouts ($19 million). Oh the irony!
Current: Shane Beamer (Year 6) 2030: Glenn Schumman, Georgia defensive coordinator
Schumann has been on hot coordinator lists for a couple of years now.
Current: Josh Heupel (Year 6) 2030: Will Stein, Kentucky head coach
We are bullish on Stein at Kentucky.
Current: Steve Sarkisian (Year 6) 2030: Sarkisian
NFL speculation will always loom over Sark, but we’ll go against conventional wisdom and say he stays put in Austin and leads the Longhorns to their best run since Mack Brown’s heyday.
Current: Mike Elko (Year 3) 2030: Eric Morris, Oklahoma State head coach
Morris has a quarterback-whisperer reputation, and when he gets the Cowboys turned around, he’ll quickly rocket up SEC hot boards.
Current: Clark Lea (Year 6) 2030: Lea
Lea is in a fascinating spot. If he hits some rough patches at Vandy post-Diego Pavia, he should get plenty of leeway from his alma mater. If he continues to help the Commodores outperform their history, he’ll have plenty of suitors. But his loyalty to the school makes it likely that he’ll only bolt for the best of jobs. Think Notre Dame, Michigan, maybe Florida.
Current: Marcus Freeman (Year 6) 2030: Mike Elko, Texas A&M head coach
We’re going to assume the Freeman-to-the-NFL chatter becomes a reality in the next four years. Elko and Vanderbilt’s Clark Lea, both former Notre Dame defensive coordinators, are the presumptive first calls if Freeman does leave.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Ralph Russo is a Senior Writer for The Athletic, covering college football. Before joining The Athletic, he spent 20 years as the lead national college football writer for The Associated Press. He also previously worked as the AP's Mississippi-based sports writer and did a stint with The Denver Post. Ralph is a native New Yorker and a graduate of Fordham University.