article_id: nyt_147
url: https://www.nytimes.com/ca/section/magazine?page=6
title: The New York Times Magazine - Page 6 - The New York Times Canada
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Stephen Grosz’s books show a new generation the inner workings of psychoanalysis.
In the wake of the U.S. bombing of Iran and its dismissal of European allies, an anxious continent’s best chance at security runs through its largest economy.
By Elisabeth Zerofsky
Veterans and others who have suffered trauma and injuries are flocking to clinics around the world to take ibogaine. My own reason was deeply personal.
The D.M.V. has suspended her license and she’s irate, blaming us.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
Why Are So Many Teen Girls Still Tearing Their A.C.L.s?
For years, ligament tears have been a crisis among young athletes — even though a few simple exercises can prevent them.
She Could No Longer Ignore the Yellowing of Her Eyes. What Caused It?
Something was terribly wrong with the young woman’s liver, but doctors had no idea what.
By Lisa Sanders, M.D.
Should I Tell People What My Principal Did?
He was a community pillar with a dark underside and possibly other victims.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
They Fought for the C.I.A. in Afghanistan. In America, They’re Living in Fear.
A shooting in Washington, D.C., threw their immigration status into jeopardy — and brought attention to a long-hidden dimension of America’s war.
By Matthieu Aikins and Wesley Morgan
They Killed Their Abusers. Should They Spend Their Lives in Prison?
A new law was supposed to help reduce the sentences of survivors of domestic violence. Most are still behind bars.
I worry that I’m piling assumptions onto a family I know nothing about, a family that might be doing its best.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The conspiracy theories of our time seem fixated on an absence of clues.
I thought my art had to be protected from the real world, but that ended up being unrealistic.
With a big budget and a lot to say, the filmmaker is unleashing her inner monster with “The Bride!”
By Lulu Garcia-Navarro
A ruling on a dispute over quality time.
The Oscars has become friendlier to non-English language movies. And the movies seem aware of their American audiences.
By Kalle Oskari Mattila
Loud racket in public is obnoxious, but so is our way of dealing with it.
I’ve found myself carrying negative feelings that I don’t want but can’t quite shake.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The self-help influencer on his values, his journey and criticism of his work.
A ruling on a mother’s curious locker-room practice.
What made her one of our greatest — and most dangerous — novelists was her belief that stories could contain what our minds couldn’t confront.
In 1994, the Olympics were rocked by a giant skating scandal. When it was all over, three athletes waited for their medals.
Interviews by Charley Locke
I can’t picture spending the rest of my career working with him.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
Have you ever been called a “love addict?” Ever suspected somebody else was?
People often compare imagery of the Trump administration to films like “Starship Troopers” and “Total Recall.” What comfort does the analogy offer?
Poems and songs say love should be world-shattering. The logic of love addiction suggests that it shouldn’t.
I was a nervous Gen Z kid who wanted to lead a bolder life — so I turned to clothing older than I am.
With such a small risk of illness, does this type of embryo selection border on eugenics?
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The woman at the center of France’s largest-ever mass-rape trial told us about her life before, during and after the abuse she suffered at the hands of her husband.
By Lulu Garcia-Navarro
In her first interview with an American media outlet, Pelicot opens up about surviving years of secret abuse — and a trial that shocked the world.
By Lulu Garcia-Navarro
A ruling on a dispute over deli-case tuna salad.
From Schwerner and Goodman to Good and Pretti, white people putting themselves in harm’s way has helped galvanize Americans for justice.
By Nikole Hannah-Jones
As I recovered from my heartbreak, I started to notice he had some views that I couldn’t disagree with more.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
In pursuit of an interesting life, he came face to face with death.
By Will Bahr and Mike Belleme
What are fans really searching for when they nitpick new adaptations for anachronisms?
This former military barracks in Bulgaria has become a symbol of the E.U.’s increasingly strict policing of its borders — and of what may come next.
By Caitlin L. Chandler
We all need change. The trick is to calibrate the appropriate amount of it.
I’ve eaten PB&Js for 35 years in an effort to have a retirement where I can do what I want.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The best-selling author grapples with big questions about A.I., consciousness and the distractions polluting our minds.
A ruling on a timeless dispute.
The White House seems to be mining the Coolidge era for inspiration. But America is not the country it was in 1924.
Jessie Diggins has become the best-ever American cross-country skier because of what she pushes her body through.
I’m afraid that even a code violation could draw attention from ICE.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
To many Israelis, he’s a war hero. To others, he’s a traitor guilty of “blood libel.” Can Yair Golan change politics in Israel?
The attempted “Great Meme Reset” reveals how inescapable the incoherent internet has become.
The entertainment industry is in crisis, but a social platform for film enthusiasts is thriving. Is it changing the way we watch?
The author and Jesuit priest discusses human dignity, political divides and how he sees the role of the Catholic Church.
By Lulu Garcia-Navarro
A diary can construct a false narrative, but the abstract snippets of a notebook let reality come into focus.
As I grew older, things about my family’s history began to seem … off.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The Minnesota Democrat on the battle between his city and the federal government.
By Lulu Garcia-Navarro
A ruling on a “Souper” Bowl party dispute.
The state is in a standoff with the federal government over who has the power to investigate the killing of protesters. It’s not a fair fight.
Spurred by her past struggles with dissociative identity disorder, she has devoted her professional life to studying it.
Fungal supplements are everywhere, promising happiness, energy, focus, you name it. But what they deliver is something else entirely.
It would mean a lot to have someone I could relate to.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
After the Cold War ended, our terror of nuclear war faded from the screen. Now it’s resurgent — and more fatalistic than ever.
With 300,000 employees gone and collective-bargaining rights eliminated, the administration has hobbled organized labor. Did it also start a movement?
It turns out that despite everything you’ve heard, getting a colonoscopy is wonderful.
What I saw, as federal agents stormed the city and residents banded together to protect themselves, was a dark, dystopian future becoming reality.
By Charles Homans and Philip Montgomery
While she is grieving about it, I feel relieved.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The “Hamnet” director on trying to overcome her deepest fears — and open her heart.
He is ranked No. 33 in the world. Can he rise to the top by using lessons from his father’s time on Wall Street?
A ruling on office correspondence etiquette.
Forty-five current and former employees on the changes they say are undermining the agency and making America less safe.
By Emily Bazelon and Rachel Poser
Many current and former employees say Kash Patel’s first year as F.B.I. director was marred by vendettas, mismanagement and meltdowns.
By Emily Bazelon and Rachel Poser
We want to hear from men over the age of 30 who feel as if they have not yet had a meaningful romantic relationship for a New York Times Magazine feature.
She got wind of it and is furious.
By Kwame Anthony Appiah
The industry seemed penned in by our political debates — until it started channeling them into wild caricatures and frothy drama.
By Casey Michael Henry
My Desi family introduced me to the role. Now that I’m an auntie, I understand its full potential.
Philippe Sands, one of the world’s pre-eminent human rights attorneys, grew up in the shadow of bleak times. He worries that history is taking an unfortunate detour.
By Michael Steinberger
In this issue, Matthieu Aikins and Wesley Morgan on the former Zero Unit soldiers who are now living in the U.S.; Sophie Haigney on love addiction; Robert Draper on his experience taking ibogaine; and more.