article_id: nyt_149
url: https://www.nytimes.com/spotlight/puzzle-making?page=10
title: Puzzle Making
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
This month’s reality television themed grid was co-constructed by Christina Iverson and Gabby Windey.
Plus, the answer grid for the 51x49 Super Mega crossword.
By New York Times Games
This month’s Taylor Swift themed grid was constructed by Patti Varol.
This month’s grid game show themed grid was constructed by Rena Cohen.
Solve the Crosswords, Connections, Strands and other puzzles that the Games team can’t stop thinking about.
By New York Times Games
This month’s folk tale-themed grid was constructed by Tracy Bennett, a puzzle editor.
Everything you need to know about this year’s special print puzzle section.
By New York Times Games
This month’s grid is a collaboration between Ken Burns, a documentarian, and Christina Iverson, a puzzle editor.
John Donegan wants you to sink your teeth into his crossword.
Plus, the answer grid for the 50 x 50 Super Mega crossword.
Ryan Patrick Smith’s crossword put up quite a fight, but there is always a way to win.
Everything you need to know about the tenth special print puzzle section.
By New York Times Games
Answer 10 questions to learn what the best puzzles for you are.
Want to discuss or get help with Puzzle Mania’s huge crossword? Here’s where to go.
While the world of logic puzzles is vast, finding your niche can make you a stronger solver.
Enter either contest for a chance to win $1,000.
By New York Times Games
The Super Mega Crossword in this year’s Puzzle Mania section is 50x50. Call in reinforcements if necessary.
Everything you need to know about the ninth special print puzzle section.
By New York Times Games
After a devastating injury damaged his cognitive abilities, word games helped the author build new ways to shape his thoughts.
The New York Times Crossword editor celebrates his 30th year in a job many would love to have.
The New York Times welcomes three new additions to the Games editorial team.
Sam Ezersky, a New York Times puzzle editor, gives a tour of his toughest puzzle ever.
Meet the newest associate puzzle editor at The New York Times.
By New York Times Games
Wyna Liu, a New York Times Crossword editor, examines a nontraditional puzzle.
Peter Gordon’s puzzle will have you cheering for the underdog.
A chat with one of the New York Times Crossword constructors.
By New York Times Games
Juliana Pache wants to give people in different Black cultures a place to feel at home and get to know each other.
A chat with one of the New York Times Crossword constructors.
By New York Times Games
A chat with one of the New York Times Crossword constructors.
By New York Times Games
Answers to the Super Mega and Meta Puzzles
By New York Times Games
Puzzle Mania’s Super Mega Crossword may look overwhelming, but you’ve got this. Here are our tips for a successful solve.
The second class of fellows will receive mentorship from one of six puzzle editors.
By New York Times Games
Et voilà! Kathy Bloomer makes a Sunday debut with panache.
Friday, Saturday and Sunday bring some of the hardest puzzles of the week.
By Jackie Frere and Isaac Aronow
Sue Fracker debuts in the New York Times Crossword.
Wyna Liu, a New York Times Crossword editor, examines a nontraditional puzzle.
We will reopen submissions on Aug. 1.
Wyna Liu, a New York Times Crossword editor, examines a nontraditional crossword puzzle.
A chat with one of the New York Times Crossword constructors.
By New York Times Games
Wyna Liu, a New York Times Crossword editor, examines a nontraditional crossword puzzle.
Amid great loss, a tradition is carried on.
A Wordplay columnist’s diary from one of the biggest solving events of the year.
A chat with one of the New York Times Crossword constructors.
By New York Times Games
Families, couples, crossword constructors and die-hard solvers gathered for the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, a tradition since 1978.
Every year, hundreds of crossword constructors and fans gather to compete in Stamford, Conn. This year will feature the first live Wordle competition.
How the Expanded Crossword Name Database helps decolonize the puzzle.
By Erica Hsiung Wojcik
In more than 100 years, 943 people have won Nobel Prizes. Only 58 of them have been women.
Jack Joshi, Jackson Janes and Adam Aaronson work as a unit.
The winners of the second contest in the 2021 “Puzzle Mania” section.
On your mark … get set … solve!
Have a secular celebration with the New York Times Crossword.
A jigsaw helped one writer understand his life.
Sam Ezersky, the occasional celebrity guest and I solve the Monday and Thursday crosswords live and without a net. And you can be a part of it.
A woman found that when her life was unstable, jigsaw puzzles provided a reliable solution.
Rachel Fabi is coming to Wordplay — and it’s all good.
If Malcolm Gladwell is correct, Will Shortz is finally an expert.
Proceeds for the Friday, Feb. 5 Zoom event will benefit The New York Times’s Neediest Cases Fund.
Joel Fagliano creates and edits the Mini Crossword.
Will Shortz announces the winners of the “Super Mega” Crossword  contest. Did you find the hidden message?
Robert Vinluan makes puzzles for Tiles.
Milena Correa makes puzzles for Vertex.
Burgess Voshell makes puzzles for Vertex.
Noca Wu makes puzzles for Vertex.
A well-loved clipboard loaded with crossword puzzles became the rock one woman leaned on when her husband became critically ill.
By Laurie Wallace Theisen
Raise the roof for Robyn Weintraub on a Friday!
When work separated Jamie Sumner and her husband, they found a way to connect over the miles.
By Michael Greer and Deb Amlen
One winner of the contest found the answer to the toughest question through some brilliant sleuthing.
‘I guess we’re into crosswords now,’ said one contestant.
The print-only crossword became a group effort with the help of Kate Soule’s Google spreadsheet.
Compiled by Deb Amlen
How we’ve changed. And how you have, too.
As the 2010s come to an end, we’re interested in your opinions on what, if anything, has changed over the past 10 years in New York Times Crosswords and Games.
Neville Fogarty returns my childhood to me.
Keiran King tests our mettle.
David J. Kahn returns with a tribute to a true 44-A.
A mother of a toddler loses her grip on words until crossword puzzles helped bring them back.
Who will take home the top prize?
A son remembers the joy of solving with his mother.
Queena Mewers makes her New York Times Crossword debut, ably assisted by Alex Eaton-Salners.
Craig Stowe gets grossed out.
Crossword constructors volunteer their time to help underrepresented populations get published.
The crossword editor, Will Shortz, announces new rates for crossword constructors.
In the NICU, a life hangs in the balance and a new mother practices self-care with crossword puzzles.
Has everyone escaped from the Escape Room? I hope you stayed hydrated!
Andrew Zhou’s puzzle evokes the mystery without which the world would not exist.
Now, all in one place: Bring your theme ideas and follow along as New York Times constructors and editors pull back the curtain on puzzle making.
In the final part of this series, the New York Times crossword editors reveal their process for evaluating and editing a puzzle submission.
By Will Shortz and Joel Fagliano
A loss in the crossword family.
In Part 4 of the series, the constructors Robyn Weintraub and Brad Wilber clue us in.
By Robyn Weintraub and Brad Wilber
In Part 3 of the series, Kevin Der and Paolo Pasco pull back the curtain on the work that goes into filling a crossword with fun and interesting entries.
By Kevin Der and Paolo Pasco
The Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Garry Trudeau and his son, the New York Times crossword constructor Ross Trudeau, team up to play with our heads.
In Part 2 of the Wordplay series, the puzzle makers David Steinberg and Natan Last design a crossword grid around our theme set.
By David Steinberg and Natan Last
Joel Fagliano is someone we can count on.
In Part 1 of this Wordplay series, two New York Times constructors, Ben Tausig and Finn Vigeland, demystify the process of developing a theme set.
By Ben Tausig and Finn Vigeland
Each spring for the past 40 years, hundreds of people who love having their brains twisted gather to celebrate the joy of playing with words.
Timothy Polin gives us choices.
Crossword constructors, looking to boost contributions by women and people of color, offer their services
A superstar to crossword fans, Ms. Jacobson made more than 1,400 puzzles for New York magazine, filling them with puns and sparkling thematic clues.