article_id: nyt_15
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/advice-longevity-expert-tips/
title: The Everyday Essentials That Longevity Experts in Their 50s, 60s, and 70s Use in Their Own Homes
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Rose Maura Lorre is a writer who has reported on turkey fryers, composters, body pillows, and more.
Sure, getting older can be a drag. But the truth is, no matter what phase of life you’re in, there are all kinds of affordable and easily adoptable habits you can develop and choices you can make that will help you age better and live longer.
While chronological age has long been considered the main risk factor for cancer, cardiovascular disease, and neurodegenerative disease, newer research indicates that “biological age” — basically, how old or young your cells are, as determined by a mix of genetics and lifestyle — can mitigate and modify those risks. Perhaps even better, all of the things you can do to lower your biological age can also keep you feeling younger and healthier, too.
Below, we’ve rounded up the best nuggets of advice on aging well from experts in the fields of gerontology, longevity, diet, exercise, and aging in place. Many of their recommendations hinge on simply tweaking your daily routine, rather than completely overhauling your lifestyle. They also don’t involve investing in over-the-top products or exorbitantly expensive equipment (no cryogenic chamber required).
If there’s a single rule to aging well, it may be that you simply need to keep moving. In fact, even if you engage in moderate exercise for less than the minimal recommendation of 150 minutes per week, it can still make a big difference: A 2011 study found that when people of all age groups engaged in just 15 minutes a day of moderate-intensity activity, they extended their life expectancy by three years. (According to the American Heart Association , moderate-intensity activities include brisk walking, dancing, gardening, and doubles tennis.)
In other words, you don’t have to magically transform into a jock or a gym rat overnight to reap the benefits of moving more. “It’s about setting up nudges so that you’re making unconscious decisions on a day-to-day, moment-to-moment basis that are slightly better,” says Dan Buettner, a longevity researcher, National Geographic fellow, and founder of the Blue Zones Project , a community-based well-being initiative. “That adds up hugely.”
Start (or continue) strength or resistance training. The experts we spoke to said that doing exercises that help maintain muscle mass and bone density — commonly referred to as strength training or resistance training — should be considered nonnegotiable. “The link between strength or resistance training and healthy aging is quite strong,” Eric Topol, MD, a cardiologist and author of Super Agers: An Evidence-Based Approach to Longevity , said. “The sooner that becomes part of your normal physical activity, the better.”
That can mean joining a gym, seeking professional assistance from your doctor or a trainer, or developing an at-home weightlifting routine (perhaps with one of our adjustable dumbbell picks ). However, if you’re intimidated by all of that, both Topol and Rosanne M. Leipzig, MD, PhD, a professor of medicine in the department of geriatrics and palliative medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York City and author of Honest Aging: An Insider’s Guide to the Second Half of Life , recommend working out with resistance bands as an alternative.
Not only are resistance bands lightweight and inexpensive, but they can also provide an effective workout that’s less grueling. “It’s not ‘no pain, no gain,’” Leipzig noted. “It’s about doing more reps at a level that you can tolerate until you get tired, instead of hurting yourself.” (The New York Times has a suggested 20-minute resistance-band strength-building routine that can get you started.)
This set of seven superbands is ideal for assisted pull-ups, full-body stretches, and other exercises. Plus, it has a stellar warranty.
Invest in shoes that are made for walking. A 2023 study found that regular walks are effective at “preventing or delaying age-related functional decline and the onset of age-related diseases in multiple organ systems.”
Buettner suggests splurging on a good pair of walking shoes and keeping them by your front door as a reminder to get your steps in. Two of our running-shoe picks — the Adidas Adizero Evo SL and the Altra Escalante 4 — work well as walking shoes, according to our fitness writer Seth Berkman.
This is the rare zero-drop shoe that feels springy but still flexible underfoot. An ample toe box creates a comfortable fit that helps prevent blisters and hot spots.
This is the same shoe, in men’s sizing.
Consider a step counter. Whether you use a smartphone app, a fitness tracker , an Apple Watch , or something analog, a step counter can help ensure that you’re getting enough daily movement.
While 10,000 steps per day was long considered the benchmark, newer research indicates that you can reap the same health benefits with less. “If I can get people to do 7,000 [steps], myself included, I’m really happy,” Leipzig said.
This easy-to-use tracker is comfortable to wear all day and provides accurate measurements, without too much clutter on the home screen.
Practice yoga. Like walking, yoga can be an easy yet highly effective safeguard against age-related decline. A 2023 study found that it increases walking speed and leg strength, two common predictors for better longevity.
Also like walking, yoga requires next to no equipment. A yoga mat that you keep somewhere visible and a YouTube channel you like — Buettner’s personal favorite is Boho Beautiful Yoga — are all it takes to get started. (If you want to try a yoga class instead, all the better, as it adds a social component to your routine.)
This natural-rubber mat creates premium suction for your fingers and toes to prevent slippage and is especially good for hot yoga. But it has a strong odor that takes a while to dissipate.
Get into gardening. A 2020 study found that gardening “provides opportunities for increased physical activity, which can prevent osteoporosis, reduce the risk of some cancers, Type 2 diabetes, depression and heart disease.”
“My dad is 90 years old and works in the garden every day, and I think he is the most fit person I know,” Buettner said. “Right now it’s harvest time, and he gives what he grows to his neighbors, which also gives him a reason to talk to people.”
Getting started requires little more than a patch of soil, some seeds, and maybe a pair of gloves , a sun hat , and a kneeling pad . (If you don’t have yard space, you can use the American Community Garden Association’s online locator tool to find available plots near you.)
Resistant to punctures and moisture, these gloves have snug, adjustable wrist straps and a spandex backing, which allow them to fit a range of hand sizes while preventing debris from entering at the wrist.
Let’s be frank about the danger of falls: In a 2023 study of patients ages 65 and up who sustained hip fractures from a fall, about 22% of them died within one year post-fracture. (The figure was even higher, about 33%, among those patients who also had cardiovascular disease.)
Lack of muscle strength is just one reason falls increase as people get older . Another is a change in proprioception, which is the body’s ability to sense its own movement and orientation, and which is likewise affected by age. “When people are in their 40s, they usually don’t have proprioception balance issues, but as we get to 65-plus, that becomes more common,” Topol said.
Balance while you brush. Susy Elder Murphy, managing director of the Aging Life Care management practice Aging Well Eldercare , suggests building a balance practice into your already established toothbrushing routine. “In theory, all of us are brushing our teeth at least twice a day for two minutes,” she said. “So practice standing on one foot for a minute and then the other foot for a minute as you brush.” (Our favorite electric toothbrush , the Oral-B Pro 1000 , has a built-in, two-minute timer.)
This oscillating brush has an onboard two-minute timer, an audible pressure sensor, and a long-lasting battery. Its replacement brush heads are widely available and cost less than those of the competition.
Stand on something soft for more of a challenge. Any inexpensive foam pad ( Therapist’s Choice is a good brand, we’ve found) can increase the intensity of a balance workout, Topol said. You can start by standing with one foot on the pad and one on the floor, then work up to standing on the pad with just one leg, and then eventually do that while bending over and touching your shins.
A Bosu ball , which is like half of a balance ball, can challenge you even more. “I’ve progressed from the floor to a foam pad to a Bosu,” Topol said.
The ingenious design of this exercise equipment — one side is domed and inflated, the other is flat and rigid — can increase the intensity of all kinds of balance and cardio workouts.
Consider toe shoes for better foot strength. “Our feet, for the most part, have become slabs of meat, because we don’t use our toes,” Buettner said. “Strong toes are a part of balance.” To strengthen yours, he recommends Peluva’s barefoot-inspired shoes , which are designed with thin soles and five individual toe slots to “make you use your feet and use your toes.” (He does not have a financial relationship with the brand; he just likes the shoes.)
Buettner likes the Peluva Strand Sport Mesh shoe ( men’s , women’s ) for treadmill use, outdoor walking, and training, and he favors the Peluva Zen Active slip-on ( men’s , women’s ) as a house shoe that can take the place of slippers and a lightweight travel shoe. He adds that Peluva shoes are easy to get used to: “Most people adapt immediately, and are able to wear them all day, and for longer walks and workouts within a few days.”
To some people, such footwear may seem like the antithesis of style — but our style reporters have actually been pleasantly surprised by how chic a toe shoe can be. If fashionable footwear is a must for you, we have some toe-shoe suggestions .
Eliminate tripping hazards. Leipzig recommends removing throw rugs from your living space. According to the CDC , rugs and carpets send more than 37,000 older adults to emergency departments each year. If you can’t bear the thought of bare floors, at least equip your rugs with pads underneath to reduce the tripping risk.
While you’re at it, Leipzig also recommends doing a general, whole-house decluttering, with an eye toward relocating or removing other household items or furniture pieces that you might trip over.
This felt and rubber pad offered the most cushioning underfoot of any we tried, and it’s also one of the best at keeping rugs in place.
A healthy diet looks mostly the same at any age, but eating well in your later years can be tricky. For starters, you need to up your protein intake, as people’s ability to properly digest protein can decrease with age, a recent study suggests.
Meanwhile, aging also causes your taste buds to lose efficiency. “The very last taste buds to die are the ones that taste sweetness,” Murphy said, which means you might begin craving sugary foods, since they likely taste best to you.
Add to all of that the fact that you may cook regularly for only one or two people, and the allure of an easy, high-calorie restaurant meal or ultraprocessed heat-and-eat option becomes all the more tempting.
Switch to simpler meal-making methods. “Having a pressure cooker or Crock Pot makes it fast and easy to assemble simple, cheap recipes,” Buettner said. “I keep an Instant Pot right on my counter, as well as a cast iron pan on my stove, so I never move anything, really.”
He also notes that plant-based meals are well suited for one-pot or one-pan cooking and can even help you live longer; a 2022 study indicated that an 80-year-old can increase their lifespan by an average of 3.4 years by switching from a more meat-heavy diet.
The Rio is a versatile time-saver in the kitchen. It’s one of Instant Pot’s more basic and affordable models, and it does everything you need it to do with ease.
This affordable pan is lighter and a little shallower than a traditional cast iron skillet. It’s the ideal shape for searing, roasting, and sautéing.
Cook with condiments that add flavor. Because your taste buds don’t perceive flavor as well as they used to, now is the time to spice up your life — or at least, your dinner — as a way to nudge yourself into eating healthy foods with just a bit more kick. Murphy recommends putting a little honey or barbecue sauce on chicken, while Buettner likes to incorporate vegetable stock or Beyond Bouillon paste into recipes for more oomph.
This sauce, which works both as a condiment and for grilling, is smoky with a good balance of acid and sweetness.
in-store purchase only
Stay hydrated. As you age, your body's natural thirst signals don’t work as well , which means you may forget to drink enough liquids. But Buettner says there’s no need to stock up on Gatorade-type beverages, hydration powders, or the like. Instead, try zhuzhing up plain water with natural flavorings.
“I don’t like drinking water, but I love drinking soda water, especially if I squeeze a little bit of fruit juice in there,” Buettner said.
The Drinkmate OmniFizz produces zippy, roiling, tasty seltzer and carbonated nonwater beverages better than any machine we’ve tested. This bundle comes with a Drinkmate CO2 cylinder, which you can exchange through a mail-in program.
If a person’s home is their temple, consider making yours a shrine to maintaining your agility and your independence as you age. (That may even include making an actual shrine; see below). Even older people who follow robust workout routines can benefit from making a few small changes to their living spaces that will reduce discomfort, improve mood, and more.
Sit on something low to the ground. To make your TV-watching time more beneficial, Buettner recommends switching out your couch-lounging for sitting on a bean bag chair, starting around age 50.
“Just that mindless getting-up-and-down from down low is exercise,” Buettner said. “We tend to want to coddle old people and cocoon them, but you actually want to nudge them into pushing their range of motion.”
That suggestion tracks with the results from a landmark 2012 study , which found that being able to get up hands-free from a seated position on the floor correlates to a lower risk of early death in adults between the ages of 51 and 80. (Those who received lower scores on the so-called sit-to-rise test were more likely to die within six years.)
Our top-pick bean bag, the Lovesac MovieSac, stands nearly 4 feet tall on its own; however, writer Joshua Lyon, author of our bean bag guide, says it sinks significantly once sat upon.
This bean bag is hard to beat. There’s a massive selection of colors and textures to choose from, and it has a buoyant, proprietary filler. It’s also extremely pricey, but it comes with a lifetime warranty.
Improve your home-office ergonomics. You can also tweak your work-from-home setup to optimize mobility and flexibility. Leipzig recommends a standing desk and under-desk treadmill combo to keep you upright and moving, since “you really get yourself into strange positions sitting at a desk all the time.”
When sitting at her own desk, she uses a rocking footrest . “It allows me to put my feet up and flex them back and forth, helping my ankles and making sure I don’t get a blood clot,” she said.
This footrest has a washable cover and high-density foam that offers firm yet cushy support for your feet. It can also serve as a foot rocker, and the 2-inch detachable base lets you adjust the height.
Put handles on your bed and car. Everyone knows that installing a shower grab bar is a good idea as you age, but Leipzig and Murphy also recommend attaching a side rail to your bed to give you something to grab in case you need it when you get up in the morning.
Similarly, Murphy suggests a car-door handle assist bar that grips into a car’s door-latch mechanism as needed. It’s inexpensive, lightweight, and portable (meaning, you can take it with you to use in cars besides your own), and it gives you some stability as you emerge from a car.
This device attaches to the side of a bed for those who want a little extra balance when rising. It includes a storage pocket, and its height is adjustable.
Create a “pride shrine.” Don’t underestimate the power of positive emotions or how easy it can be to manifest them. Buettner has a wall in his home filled with photos and other mementos that deliver a mood boost every time he passes by.
“Frame all the things that bring you pride — your grandchildren, your favorite vacation, your high school graduation, an award you won that you’re proud of — all of the things that bring back positive memories,” Buettner said. (His even includes a photo of himself with then–Prince Charles.)
“It’s like engineering in this effortless, positive charge,” he explained. “Plus, it costs very little, and you probably have all of this stuff already.”
Framebridge makes sturdy, beautiful frames in a variety of styles, and its website is easy to navigate.
Let there be light. “A 60-year-old needs about twice as much light to be able to read as a 20-year-old, and 80-year-olds need three times as much,” Leipzig said. She recommends adding task lighting as needed to areas where you read, pay bills, and do other activities.
This great-quality, highly adjustable aluminum LED desk lamp is affordable, and it can reach high and far.
Of course, diet and exercise matter a lot — but certain other health safeguards, even if they seem unrelated to overall longevity, can have an outsize effect on quality and length of life in later years. “The first thing I always tell my patients is, ‘Don’t delay things that help,’” Leipzig said.
Get your hearing checked regularly. In recent years, hearing loss has come to the fore as a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease, early death, and Alzheimer’s.
Fortunately, that risk is more easily modified thanks to the introduction of over-the-counter hearing aids . The main barrier to entry may just be convincing people to wear them. “When I have patients who don’t want to wear hearing aids, I tell them, ‘Everyone is wearing something in their ears these days anyway,’” Leipzig said.
These hearing aids offer multiple sound modes, Bluetooth streaming capabilities, and an intuitive app.
Take care of your teeth. In a 2011 study , brushing your teeth (especially at night), flossing daily, and visiting the dentist at least once a year were all shown to “promote survival in older adults” by huge numbers. In other words, your mom was right: You really ought to floss.
Cocofloss is a plush, gentle, and effective string floss that comes in a reliable, refillable package with an ergonomic design.
This article was edited by Megan Beauchamp and Christine Cyr Clisset. Illustrations by George Wylesol for NYT Wirecutter.
A reader shares how a small collection of smart devices make her days more convenient and secure, and have enabled her to live more independently.
If you or a loved one plans to age at home, invest in the tools and services that ensure safety and security, and also boost comfort and convenience. These items go a long way.
From top-tier smartphones to basic models, these phones offer safety, health, and accessibility features that many older adults and caregivers will appreciate.
Our favorite medical alert systems make sure that help is always easy to call if you need it.
Unlike many of my colleagues, my job isn’t about being an expert in one product category. Instead, I write about how to get the most value, longevity, and enjoyment out of the stuff you already own (or are thinking about buying) across all of our product categories. One day I might interview a dermatologist about the pros and cons of lanolin, and the next I might smoke a turkey with the founder of New York Times Cooking.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).