article_id: nyt_152
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/snoop-dogg?page=10
title: Snoop Dogg
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Using exploitative marketing strategies, the illicit gambling websites have profited and lured in a young generation of gamblers.
By Neil Bedi, Aric Toler, Jenny Vrentas, Leo Dominguez and Rumsey Taylor
With his boisterous antics, Cenat has gained 19 million Twitch followers and the attention of celebrities who covet that audience.
Billionaire business leaders, including Mark Zuckerberg, Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, plan to make prominent appearances at Donald Trump’s inauguration next week.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Ravi Mattu, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced and Lauren Hirsch
A new generation of hip-hop artists seems less interested in becoming stars and more in becoming myths — and dismantling the status quo.
By Jon Caramanica and Joe Coscarelli
Hear tracks by Benjamin Booker, Julien Baker and Torres, and more.
By Jon Pareles and Lindsay Zoladz
The lifestyle luminaries, who have been on the publicity circuit, were once close, but in a recent interview, Ms. Stewart doubled down on her contention that Ms. Garten abandoned her during a difficult period.
ABC, NBC and Fox are all premiering new shows about doctors, cops or firefighters. The Voice is also returning, with Snoop Dogg joining the judges’ panel.
Hear where moments of Kraftwerk, Enya, Herb Alpert and more ended up in producers’ deft hands.
Members of the Olympic Museum’s heritage acquisitions team fan out during the Games to get donations to put on display in Lausanne, Switzerland.
No hace falta una medalla para dejar un recuerdo imborrable en los Juegos Olímpicos.
By The New York Times
Celebrities and athletes are chronicling the chase for their most prized conquests on social media, with high demand for designs from Snoop Dogg and Simone Biles.
El artista y aficionado al deporte busca aumentar la audiencia del evento internacional para NBC Universal.
The network hired the rapper for an expanded role on its broadcasts of the Summer Games in Paris after posting record-low viewership of the Tokyo competition.
The 1993 album “Doggystyle” went on to sell millions of copies around the world and solidified the career of Mr. Daniel, known as Joe Cool, as a hip-hop illustrator.
Wesley Morris on why identifying the “song of summer” is more art than science.
By Alex Barron, Paula Szuchman, Sophia Lanman, Melissa Kirsch and Wesley Morris
The seemingly transactional relationship between hip-hop artists and a politician with legal troubles.
Snoop Dogg, as an egomaniacal retired football star, turns community service into a sport when he sees a chance to rekindle romance with a player’s mom.
Josephine Wright’s high-profile legal battle with a land developer on the picturesque South Carolina island drew support from Snoop Dogg, Kyrie Irving and Tyler Perry, among others.
Selections from the Weekend section, including a review of the film “Medusa Deluxe.”
Josephine Wright, 93, is fighting to stay on the South Carolina island where many Black families have been priced out. Snoop Dogg and Kyrie Irving have chipped in to help cover her legal costs.
By Rebecca Carballo and Amanda Holpuch
To celebrate the 50th anniversary of hip-hop, we asked the poet and author Mahogany L. Browne to write a love letter to the genre, composed entirely of lyrics both beloved and obscure.
By Mahogany L. Browne
Learning how a “large language model” operates.
Jamie Foxx is a blue-collar vampire hunter and a steadying hand on the tiller of this frenzied action comedy.
By Jeannette Catsoulis
Hear tracks by DJ Khaled featuring Drake and Lil Baby, Panda Bear & Sonic Boom, the 1975 and others.
By Jon Caramanica and Lindsay Zoladz
Ahead of this week’s final round, a writer and photographer went backstage for this state-versus-state competition based on Eurovision. The singers get it. Does America?
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Kendrick Lamar, Mary J. Blige y 50 Cent confirmaron el poder de la generación de la vieja guardia del hip-hop en el gran escenario de la música pop estadounidense.
Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eminem, Kendrick Lamar, Mary J. Blige and 50 Cent asserted the power of hip-hop’s oldies generation on pop music’s most-watched stage.
Mary J. Blige and Kendrick Lamar rounded out the set and the special guest 50 Cent surprised the crowd before Eminem knelt onstage in an apparent nod to Colin Kaepernick’s protest.
Selections from the current Weekend section, including a brief history of hip-hop and the Super Bowl halftime show.
At Sunday’s game, Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg and Kendrick Lamar will lead the first-ever halftime performance with rap at its center. The genre has taken a roundabout path to get there.
The N.F.L. announced the three Southern California natives will share billing with Mary J. Blige and Eminem at Super Bowl LVI in Los Angeles.
Ruffin, who hosts her own show on Peacock, has added a twist to athletes’ post-match interviews.
By Alexandra E. Petri
“Companies that get down with me know how I get down.”
Snoop Dogg, Ice Cube, E-40 and Too Short — the old school titans in this new supergroup — made their live debut at an event featuring pop stars and TikTok influencers.
Bitcoin and even Dogecoin, which began as a playful experiment, are soaring in value as billionaires, companies and celebrities promote the digital currencies.
Hear tracks by Oneohtrix Point Never, Bryson Tiller, La Dame Blanche and others.
By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni Russonello
Artists like Edwin Birdsong and Ballin’ Jack aren’t household names, but their music is instantly recognizable as the samples behind hit pop songs.
Hear tracks by Oasis, Haim, Kenny Chesney and others.
By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni Russonello
Trump supporters like the ones calling for an end to stay-at-home orders “seem to fight hardest for the things that will kill them,” Jimmy Kimmel said.
“I should have handled it way different than that,” Snoop Dogg said on Instagram. Last week he unleashed an angry response to an interview that touched on a 2003 sexual assault accusation against Mr. Bryant.
Lil Nas X’s viral sensation “Old Town Road” is the latest addition to a hybrid-genre tradition that dates back at least to 1985. Here’s a guide, from Sir Mix-A-Lot to Sam Hunt.
The McConaissance collapses into decadence in Harmony Korine’s latest caper.
The doyenne of domesticity will advise a Canadian company on a new line of hemp-based CBD products for animals and humans.
Some news outlets have sought to discredit Ms. Harris, seizing on recent comments as proof of her inauthenticity, but several of them left out key context.
Cordell Broadus is an up-and-coming fashion model and street wear designer.
Hear the new songs that caught our critics' attention this week from Nine Inch Nails, Shabazz Palaces and more.
By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni Russonello
Chatbots on Facebook Messenger are changing how the music industry connects with listeners, who say they’re happy to hear even from automated versions of their favorite stars.
Should a Times culture writer have commented on a vulgar tweet by a rapper?
“You made me stay up till 9 p.m. to tell me that Trump pays taxes?” Trevor Noah said. Ms. Maddow herself told Jimmy Fallon about getting the president’s 2005 tax return.
By Giovanni Russonello
In a clip for the song “Lavender,” the rapper points a toy gun at a clown named Ronald Klump. In a tweet, Mr. Trump said the musician’s career is “failing.”
On their new television show, “Martha & Snoop’s Potluck Dinner Party,” an odd couple dispense wit and kitchen wisdom.
Once an affront to the mainstream, the company’s hip-hop album covers eventually became part of it.
Organizers claim it is the oldest state fair in the United States, dating back at least to 1841. Big names like Melissa Etheridge and Snoop Dogg are scheduled to perform this year, but there are smaller reasons why the fair still matters.
The rapper was arrested in Sweden on Saturday night on suspected drug charges.
Compiled by Andrew R. Chow
A celebration of the shortest day of the year in Australia, a new home for contemporary art in Moscow and theater from around Europe and beyond in Transylvania.
By Christopher D. Shea
The rapper on legal pot, Baltimore and why he has no problem with Iggy Azalea and Macklemore.
Interview by Jon Caramanica
Celebrities like Snoop Dogg and Justin Bieber are investing in start-ups, and in the venture capital industry, it is seen as a badge of honor.
By Steven Davidoff Solomon
Snoop Dogg has teamed up with Allen Hughes to produce an HBO drama about a 1980s Los Angeles family.
Snoop Dogg gives the keynote for the music portion of SXSW.
The hip-hop star is joining prominent tech investors in a $50 million financing round. He’s popular with Reddit users, more than willing to discuss a topic that’s a favorite among them: marijuana.
“Take Me to the River” looks to the past and the future of a vanishing musical legacy.
We’ll be sure to update our readers if and when Snoop accepts our invitation to visit with The New York Times editorial board.
Organizers of the fifth annual Cannabis Cup trade show in Denver are expecting the largest crowd in the event’s history.
The singer Jon Bon Jovi and athletes like Torii Hunter and David Robinson, among other celebrities, have sons on the Fighting Irish football team.
Snoop Dogg turns into Snoop Lion for his new album, while Will.i.am’s latest record tends toward dance.
In “Reincarnated” the rapper Snoop Dogg, who now wants to be known as Snoop Lion, heads to Jamaica for a spiritual pilgrimage of sorts.
Willie Nelson, Snoop Dogg, Armie Hammer and Fiona Apple were all previously arrested at the United States Border Patrol checkpoint near Sierra Blanca, Tex., where authorities said they had found drugs and a loaded gun on Nelly’s tour bus.
The rapper, who turned 40 last year, said he underwent an epiphany in Jamaica and wrote more than a dozen songs in a traditional reggae style.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
The officials would not confirm that the rapper had been detained because of Norway’s law preventing the naming of suspects, but officials said an American artist had been caught with a small amount of marijuana by a sniffer-dog.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
It remains unlikely that the group will use the same technology Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg used recently to make a ghostly image of Tupac Shakur.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
The computer-generated projection of the dead rapper was unveiled at Coachella on Sunday, but questions remain about a report that it would be taken on tour by Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg.
By James C. McKinley Jr.
The annual music festival will also have its share of reunions of group from the 1980s and 90s, including Pulp and Mazzy Star.
The misdemeanor arrest of the rebellious rapper at the Sierra Blanca highway checkpoint near El Paso on Saturday might not be newsworthy in and of itself, except that Mr. Nelson was also arrested there in 2010.
The annual festival, held in Indio, Calif., will feature two weekends, April 13-15 and April 20-22, with the Black Keys, Radiohead, Snoop Dogg, Dr. Dre and more.
That Wiz Khalifa would find kinship with Snoop Dogg is no surprise, and their album, “Mac & Devin Go to High School,” plays like the late hours of a family reunion.
By Jon Caramanica, Nate Chinen and Jon Pareles
Suge Knight, the founder of Death Row Records who played a leading role during a turbulent and violent period of hip-hop history, will the be subject of a feature-length documentary on Showtime
By James C. McKinley Jr.
“The Big Bang” carries film noir parody into particle physics territory to try to solve the mystery to end all mysteries.
Snoop Dogg has repeatedly mentioned Colt 45 in his Facebook page and in a song, and he is featured in other ads and promotions.
By Andrew Adam Newman
Air New Zealand’s promotional and safety videos have been viewed millions of times on YouTube, garnering additional publicity for the small carrier.
By Andrew Adam Newman
I have to admit that I have had a hard time getting my head around the inclusion of Snoop Dogg at Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards over the weekend. And I’m willing to play the no-win role of grouchy old man on this one.
Super Bowl parties went big this year, rebounding from a few years of restraint.
Both sides of the film festival, indie movie fawning and ambush marketing, were on display during the opening night ceremonies.
Snoop Dogg, Wu-Tang Clan, Lauryn Hill and other stars revisited their defining works at the Rock the Bells festival on Governors Island.
Designers show standard materials in elongated silhouettes, more interesting than suits.
The hip-hop star Snoop Dogg now finds himself a rapper non grata in The Hague.
Compiled by Dave Itzkoff
New releases from Mary J. Blige, Snoop Dogg and the jazz pianist Marc Copland.
“TRL,” the afternoon video show that has been an MTV flagship for 10 years, came to an end.
Snoop Dogg has been granted a visa to enter Australia, The Associated Press reported.
Compiled by Julie Bloom
Indians are getting their first encounter with American rapper Snoop Dogg, who sings a rap song in a Sikh turban in “Singh is Kinng.”
Snoog Dogg’s set on Wednesday at Keyspan Park was like an R&B revue — slick, cocksure and mature. 311’s show, while musically diverse, lacked shape and color.
The British border agency is appealing for a second time to keep the rapper Snoop Dogg out of the country.
Compiled by Lawrence Van Gelder
Britain’s Border Agency plans to challenge a court ruling that would admit the hip-hop star Snoop Dogg into the country, The Associated Press reported.
Compiled by Lawrence Van Gelder
The biggest name on the bill at Winter Fest 2008, a grab-bag concert, was Snoop Dogg, the gangsta-rap pioneer.
The machine that minted a long string of big-name stars, from Snoop Dogg to OutKast, has broken down. What happens now?
“Snoop Dogg’s Father Hood” is what the E! channel calls his showcase at-home-with-homeys reality series, an uneasy mix of offspring and entourage.
Golf’s caretakers seem complacent with the sport the way it is: safely suburban, affluently anchored. The private politics of the United States Golf Association say so.
How Don Imus’s problem became a referendum on hip-hop.
The coarsest, most socially destructive images and language are an integral part of our everyday discourse.
The empire strikes; Snoop Dogg and P. Diddy strike back, Mstislav Rostropovich celebrated, the Royal Academy names a new chief and more culture news.
Compiled by Lawrence Van Gelder
What would George Bernard Shaw think about urban renewal or the United States’ current policy toward the poor? Or hip-hop music? Do you care?