article_id: nyt_153
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7016880/2026/02/02/uswnt-wsl-england-results-full-time/
title: Split results for USWNT players abroad. Plus: Triple Espresso’s reunion
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Jasper Wax / Getty Images
Full Time Newsletter ⚽| This is The Athletic ’s weekly women’s soccer newsletter. Sign up here to receive Full Time directly in your inbox.
My washing machine flooded my apartment, so we are literally diving right in. Quickly, though: We still want to hear about your reading habits .
While many NWSL-based players took part in Emma Hayes’ January camp last week, European-based players stayed with their clubs for some midseason action. We will talk more about that U.S. camp shortly, but first, here’s how some of those players fared in England:
The results leave open an opportunity for other players waiting in the U.S. player pool …
Reflecting on the U.S. January camp
As for those who were in camp last week, Hayes said the pair of dominant performances in January were an excellent way for NWSL players to ease back into their preseasons. It was also a crucial window for this next generation of rising USWNT stars.
Trinity Rodman triumphantly returned to the pitch and stepped into her captaincy era. Her Washington Spirit teammate, Croix Bethune, had her best camp yet. Several other young players gave fans a glimpse of what they have to offer.
Hayes shifts her focus now to finding her core group for World Cup qualifiers in November. Her years-long plan to develop a pipeline between the U-23 and senior team is paying off . She has plenty of options heading into 2027, as well as data to work off for the Olympics and 2031 World Cup.
Next up, though: the 2026 SheBelieves Cup from March 1-7.
Dunn announces retirement
World Cup winner Crystal Dunn, 33, has officially called time on her legendary playing career. In a post on Instagram last Thursday , the three-time NWSL champion said she was “at peace and deeply fulfilled with all that I have accomplished.”
Drafted at No. 1 by Washington in 2014, Dunn’s career spans both coasts and Europe. In addition to a World Cup trophy, Dunn has one gold and one bronze Olympic medal.
We will have more this week on her impact, but for now, Tamerra Griffin sums up her epic career the best: “ Dunn will always be remembered for her versatility — and her dance moves, crafted long before the creation of TikTok — and for the doors she pried open as an unapologetically Black soccer player.”
🎧 Listen to more reflection on Dunn’s career on last week’s “Full Time.”
We are 39 days away from the NWSL season. Melanie Anzidei escaped the freeze of the East Coast to report from media day, while our resident world traveler Tamerra went directly from an international flight to the ballroom of the hotel.
Here are a few of their takeaways:
Which teams have you excited for the season?
Tamerra: Maybe it was the joy of seeing so many familiar faces after a lengthy offseason, but I left NWSL’s media day feeling excited about all the NWSL teams. Every player I met seemed refreshed and eager to dive into preseason, exactly the energy you want at the end of January.
That said, I’m hopeful about the Utah Royals. Midfielder and Japan international Mina Tanaka expressed (through a translator) her firm belief in the playing style head coach Jimmy Coenraets implemented last season and her desire to build upon it, as well as her motivation to score more goals than the six she netted last season. She’s locked in.
Tell us about the dog !
Melanie: A moment for Westin Luca, please! You may have caught the handsome Frenchie across social media last week. He repeatedly stole the show in between player availability, cruising through the hotel in one of his many stylish rides. The rockstar even has his own plane. Westin is the hotel’s mascot and VIP (Very Important Pup) — and had me hoping the NWSL would soon follow suit in recruiting a mascot of their own.
What was your favorite quote from the day?
Tamerra: Houston Dash and USWNT defender Avery Patterson was asked whether she thinks about the way previous national team players have handled discussing current events outside of soccer, including the ongoing federal operations in Minneapolis.
“I was watching an interview of Sam Mewis and Becky Sauerbrunn the other day, and (asked myself), ‘How do we become those leaders for the next generation?’ … How do we become those advocates and those people that have the voice to hopefully enact change?”
( Editor’s note: I think everyone should read this first-hand perspective by our former writer Jeff Rueter . He lives in Minnesota and is now writing over at the Guardian.)
Getting caffeinated once again
Nearly 600 days have passed since we last watched a U.S. attacking front three of Rodman, Mallory Swanson and Sophia Wilson. The self-proclaimed “Triple Espresso” had not been together in the same room since the USWNT’s gold-medal win against Brazil at the 2024 Olympics. (The Winter Olympics start later this week!)
But in the lobby of the Westin Bonaventure hotel in Los Angeles for NWSL media day last week, the trio reunited , and it was as sweet as it sounds .
“Those are my sisters,” Wilson said , with a giant smile.
A lot has happened for the trio since they won the hearts of America during the Paris Games, scoring 10 goals on the way to gold, including Swanson and Wilson each giving birth to their first child.
While the three are eager to reclaim their places on the U.S. squad, Wilson and Rodman will square off at Audi Field on March 13 to open their seasons. Swanson, who only gave birth in November, is a little bit further from returning to the Chicago Stars and is taking her on-field comeback week by week.
Full Time First Looks
Transfer talks: The WSL transfer window closes tomorrow, but many players are already looking to the summer for moves. One team we are watching is Arsenal and their talks to sign Barcelona’s Ona Batlle . In the U.S., Denver Summit signed 23-year-old defender Eva Gaetino from Paris Saint-Germain on a deal through to the 2028 season.
Lawsuit settlement: Stanford and the family of former women’s soccer goalkeeper Katie Meyer have settled a wrongful death lawsuit in relation to Meyer’s death by suicide in 2022.
Crowning Champions: While I am still trying to decide what to make of FIFA’s Women’s Champions Cup , I don’t want to move on without giving Corinthian fans their flowers. I mean, just look at the support they brought from around the world.
🖤 In honor of Black History Month, we thought it’d be fun to test your knowledge of some iconic women who’ve made a mark on the sport. We’ll start at the beginning. Who is the first Black woman to play for the U.S. women’s national team? (And name the year for bonus points.) The answer will be in next week’s edition.
📫 Love Full Time? These stories can also be found on Yahoo’s women’s sports hub , in partnership with The Athletic. Also, check out our other newsletters .
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Emily Olsen is a managing editor for The Athletic. She has covered the sport in America since 2015. Her work has appeared in USA TODAY, the Orlando Sentinel, MLSsoccer.com and others. She also spent time producing daily shows for SiriusXM's 24-hour soccer channel. Follow Emily on Twitter @ EmilyTOlsen