article_id: nyt_154
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/andrea-bocelli?page=4
title: Andrea Bocelli
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The performers include an Italian tenor who is one of the most successful singers in the world and an actress who has had roles in “The White Lotus” and “The Paper.”
By Victor Mather and Joshua Barone
In “Believing,” The New York Times is exploring how religion and spirituality shape our lives. The reporter behind it found examples in houses of worship, in sports stadiums and at Taylor Swift concerts.
Rufus Wainwright, Josh Groban, Andrea Bocelli and others choose opera’s most passionate, golden voices.
Lady Gaga, the Rolling Stones, Billie Eilish and more took over the major networks for a Global Citizen event celebrating essential workers and supporting the World Health Organization.
So many overtones were there when they met backstage at the Blue Note jazz club.
By Rosalie R. Radomsky
The singer reflects on a gift he received from Muhammad Ali, a symbol of their long friendship.
The Italian tenor used a bundle of his new album with concert tickets to achieve his first chart-topper on the all-genre Billboard 200.
Michael Radford’s film tells a fictionalized version of the life of Andrea Bocelli.
By Jeannette Catsoulis
The Italian tenor had been rumored to perform. The chairman of the inaugural committee told CNBC that the president-elect had declined Mr. Bocelli’s offer.
With many of Latin music’s major artists on the sidelines, the field will be wide open at the awards show on Nov. 17.
After clinching the title last week, Leicester City arranged a homecoming celebration to be remembered.
Miami Beach will observe its 100th birthday with a concert (Andrea Bocelli, Gloria Estefan and Flo Rida are on the bill), sports and a screening of the “Miami Vice” pilot.
Ms. Streisand uses her still formidable pipes to sing duets or to riff on current affairs.
Facial hair, floral prints and softly tailored suits abounded at the Pitti Uomo trade fair in Florence, Italy.
The tenor Andrea Bocelli brought his popular blend of opera and lighter fare to Barclays Center on Wednesday.
The tenor Andrea Bocelli offered operetta arias, carols and his ballad hits in a concert at the Barclays Center.
By Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim
The two concerts will be scheduled closer together so the stage will not have to be set up twice.
A black-tie party in Manhattan heralded the release of the tire maker’s new calendar, shot by the Italian fashion photographer Mario Sorrenti and featuring models in varying states of undress.
This week on the pop music charts, Drake has a big opening and Adele breaks a record set by Michael Jackson.
A Trump family reunion in the V.I.P. tent at the Andrea Bocelli concert; a dry rock ’n’ roll fund-raiser; and political horseplay at the new carousel in Brooklyn Bridge Park.
Andrea Bocelli’s free Central Park concert brought out thousands, even with rain, for a pop-culture extravaganza that diminished the presence of the New York Philharmonic.
Alan Gilbert, music director of the New York Philharmonic, has vowed to restore free concerts in the city’s parks next year after the orchestra’s decision to suspend the series this summer.
The New York Philharmonic announced its free 9/11 memorial concert, to be followed five days later by a Central Park concert by Andrea Bocelli.
The orchestra will perform with the tenor Andrea Bocelli on Sept. 15 on Central Park’s Great Lawn, a special event outside its usual parks series.
A star crossover tenor seemed out of his element and ill at ease in one of his rare all-classical recitals.
Champagne flowed at Madison Square Garden on Thursday night at the start of Andrea Bocelli’s latest American tour, “My Christmas.”
This week Andrea Bocelli is presenting a series of concerts with the New York Philharmonic at Carnegie Hall.
Reviews of “Catch 30” at Starr Street Projects, C. Eule Dance and the Pan Asian Chamber Jazz Ensemble and the choreography competition “The A.W.A.R.D. Show!”
By The New York Times
Legions of Andrea Bocelli fans filled Madison Square Garden to hear him perform popular arias as well as songs from his latest recording.
It can sometimes be hard to think of the Brooklyn Youth Chorus, founded by Dianne Berkun in 1992, as anything but a polished ensemble of miniature professionals.
Bernard Holland reviews performance by Andrea Bocelli at Avery Fisher Hall; photo (M)
It is the critic’s duty to report that Andrea Bocelli is not a very good singer, but music critics had no business at Avery Fisher Hall on Wednesday where Mr. Bocelli’s every gesture invited warm, resounding approval.
Singer Andrea Bocelli will make his New York Philharmonic debut in four nonsubscription concerts in advance of orchestra's opening night; photo (S)
Compiled by Ben Sisario
New releases from Andrea Bocelli, Il Divo, Jamey Johnson, Heather Headley, She Wants Revenge and Chris Potter.
By The New York Times
Stephen Holden reviews new CD by Andrea Bocelli; photo (M)
DAVID MILLER, a 32-year-old American tenor on the brink of making his Metropolitan Opera debut, received a call to audition not long ago. The project involved, he had heard, ''opera singers not singing opera.''      Mr. Miller, who studied at Oberlin Conservatory and had years of repertory under his belt, aced the audition and landed a spot in Il Divo, the hunky Armani-clad vocal group assembled by Simon Cowell, the musical impresario best known as the acid-tongued judge on ''American Idol.'' Mr. Miller's detour from a more conventional classical path to the pop superhighway, where he now sings operatic renditions of ''My Way'' and ''Unbreak My Heart'' in Italian, leaves him shaking his head in wonder.
Anne Midgette reviews Andrea Bocelli performance in newly released recording of Tosca; photo (S)
Boldface Names column; Bette Midler and Angela Lansbury are among celebrities appearing in Short Talks on the Universe, Mike Nichols's grouping of six short plays that will have two-night run at O'Neill Theater; Midler to perform Nora Ephron's monologue I Hate My Purse; Lorin Maazel discusses tenors and violinists before group at American Museum of Natural History, and performs with Andrea Bocelli; audience includes Mark Messier, Victoria Gotti, Denise Rich and Al Roker; ice cream lands on Marian Seldes's sleeve during dinner at New York Public Library; American supporters of Tretyakov museum in Moscow attend dinner at Russian consulate in New York; Librarian of Congress James H Billington, Russian scholar, praises exchange program; Jean-Claude Baker, owner of Chez Josephine, discusses his adoptive mother Josephine Baker's romances with European royals, including Italian king whose grandson is seated at table; photos (S)
Sue and Iris Greideninger letter on Matthew Gurewitsch's February 24 article holds it is unlikely Andrea Bocelli will pass into oblivion
Matthew Gurewitsch article, noting success of other groups of male tenors, profiles newest ones who are singing solo--Andrea Bocelli, Russell Watson and Alessandro Safina; photos (M)
By Matthew Gurewitsch