article_id: nyt_155
url: https://www.nytimes.com/section/arts?page=8
title: Arts
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
By transmitting his love of live performance, the “Just in Time” actor has completed his ascendance to full musical stardom.
By Ben Brantley and Mohamed Sadek
For an unmoored time, 56 artists and teams present an inspired discourse shaped by crisis, craft and community. Look up, and listen.
“Hopefully this can be the first step in long overdue change that needs to occur in Britney’s life,” a representative for the pop star said after she was released from jail.
By Michaela Towfighi and Ben Sisario
In the four years since the British singer last released an album, artists like Sombr, working in similar aesthetic modes, have climbed onto the charts.
Druski Can’t Believe He’s Getting Away With All This, Either
The comedian is building a galaxy of collaborators — Timothée Chalamet, Kai Cenat and Justin Bieber — and telling us how they fit into his future.
By Jon Caramanica and Joe Coscarelli
Pokémon Company Objects to White House’s Political Memes
“No permission was granted for the use of our intellectual property,” the company said. The Trump administration frequently promotes policies with content from video games.
Olivier Awards: ‘Paddington’ and ‘Into the Woods’ Lead Nominations
The two musicals secured 11 nominations each for Britain’s equivalent of the Tony Awards. Cate Blanchett, Bryan Cranston and Rachel Zegler are also among the nominees.
After Sci-Fi Smashes, a Studio Goes Cutthroat
Bungie was bought for billions after creating the hit video games Halo and Destiny. But will players welcome its confrontational extraction shooter Marathon with open arms?
Black Panther’s Hip-Hop Play, in Shakespeare’s House
The actor Chadwick Boseman was a playwright, too. At Shakespeare’s Globe in London, his “Deep Azure” is drawing attention to a lost talent inspired by the Bard.
Squeeze Wrote a Rock Opera Five Decades Ago. It’s Coming Out Now.
During its early days, the band came up with songs about a fictional nightclub. After a career filled with ups and downs, it finally returned to “Trixies.”
‘The Bride!’ Review: Frankie, My Dear
Maggie Gyllenhaal’s time-shifting, genre-hopping riff on Mary Shelley’s creation stars Jessie Buckley and Christian Bale as outlaws in love.
‘Hoppers’ Review: Animal Magnetism
The latest Pixar movie centers on pudgy beavers and a spunky teenager determined to save their habitat.
‘Pompei: Below the Clouds’ Review: Trembling Beauties, Old and New
The past and the present converge in this ravishingly beautiful Italian documentary set in the shadow of Mount Vesuvius.
A New Opera Dives Down the Rabbit Hole of Modern Paranoia
Michel van der Aa’s “Theory of Flames” originates from a question: “How can we relate to people if we don’t believe in the same reality?”
By Hugh Morris and Desiré Van Den Berg
This week in Newly Reviewed, Seph Rodney covers Deborah Roberts’s collages, Ursula von Rydingsvard’s wood outcroppings and Noel W Anderson’s superstars.
In a career studded with literary awards, he was the author of dozens of books that grappled with his nation’s legacy of dictatorship and colonialism.
Eleven of Toni Morrison’s novels are being reissued by her publisher, and there’s a new book of criticism about her work. Parul Sehgal, a critic at large for The New York Times, joined Wesley Morris and Sasha Weiss to talk about Ms. Morrison’s powerful prose and whether her sanctification has its own risks.
Parul Sehgal, a critic at large for The New York Times, talked with Wesley Morris about her first encounter with Toni Morrison’s novel “The Bluest Eye.”
Wesley Morris takes a moment to celebrate the talent of Delroy Lindo, the actor who plays Delta Slim in Ryan Coogler’s “Sinners.” After a long career, Mr. Lindo has been nominated for an Oscar at 73.
At 87, the sculptor and ceramist Megumi Yuasa is having his first solo exhibition in the U.S.
By Rose Courteau and Luisa Dörr
Many of the galleries showing at TEFAF Maastricht are from France, a sign of the country’s growing presence in fairs and overall rising influence in art and collecting.
Manneken Pis, the famed bronze statue of a little boy who always has to go, has an official dresser in charge of his more than 1,190 outfits.
A Dutch florist has crafted the fair’s massive, colorful arrangements since 1988. Their secrets? Early mornings, intense planning and thousands of flowers.
Evident is the vast influence that France has had upon the Netherlands city, the result of its geography, history and the population’s affinity for its culture.
By Elaine Sciolino and Ilvy Njiokiktjien
Margrethe Odgaard, whose new textiles will be featured at TEFAF Maastricht, aims to define the distinctive hues preferred in various places, by different cultures.
The Dutch art fair, renowned for art and antiquities, works to prove its relevance as the wider world changes around it.
In the ’70s, Patrick Saytour and his fellow avant-gardists took their work outside the frame, exploding the notion of what painting might be.
Nearby cities in the Netherlands and Belgium will display van Gogh masterpieces, an exhibition on birds, an exploration of the evolution of beauty standards and more.
As the Maastricht fair continues to update its outlook, an emphasis on photography is bringing together “the whole range of what culture can be.”
AGO Projects, which specializes in contemporary work, recently turned heads by standing by an artist who had become a political lightning rod.
Milla Jovovich plays a mother whose wrath is unleashed when her daughter is kidnapped in this brooding revenge thriller.
By hosting a pavilion again this year, Russia continues its efforts to shed its status as a cultural and sporting pariah.
Women in Denmark, dismayed by unequal representation in public art, stitched together a protest campaign.
While Emilia-Romagna’s capital still thrives on traditions like tagliatelle al ragù and mortadella, new openings are taking the city in refreshing directions.
By Evan Rail and Marta Giaccone
A remake of the 1986 crowd-pleasing hockey movie, starring Ashton James as a promising young Black player, has a lot more on its mind than the original.
This unclassifiable postmodern spoof, from the comedians Nick Corirossi and Armen Weitzman, is a strange, circuitous trip through California wine country.
A loutish teenager is shown the error of his ways in this absurdly gripping psychological thriller.
By Jeannette Catsoulis
In this documentary, an ad man who treats life with irreverence tries to approach his death from colon cancer the same way.
A backwoods monster with a twisted doll obsession puts a couple through the wringer in this unflinching exploitation fairy tale.
“This could be the first war ever launched based on vibes,” Jimmy Fallon said.
The sixth book is scheduled to be released on Oct. 27, 2026, and the seventh on Jan. 12, 2027, the author announced on the “Call Her Daddy” podcast.
The Justice Department had John Abbamondi testify at an antitrust trial to support its case that Live Nation has acted as a monopoly, an accusation the company denies.
A new Bill Lawrence comedy starring Steve Carell and a new mystery starring Nicole Kidman are among this month’s highlights.
He helped pioneer a newly complex approach to sampling in rap music, including on A Tribe Called Quest’s influential 1991 album “The Low End Theory.”
For Commes des Garçons, he designed improbable perfumes that conjured burning rubber and cars leaking oil. His uncanny art pieces were equally contrarian.
With his acclaimed interpretations of Delta Blues standards, he was a fixture on the Greenwich Village music scene for decades.
Why the country is quick to tear down its modern architectural masterpieces.
Doron Langberg used to think their Israeli heritage was incidental to their art. Then the Gaza war brought questions of identity and history to the surface.
By Julia Halperin and Justin J Wee
Hugh Jackman returns in “Sexual Misconduct of the Middle Classes,” Jesse Tyler Ferguson plays Truman Capote, and Celia Keenan-Bolger and Tony Shalhoub star in an “Antigone” riff.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a sequence from her film featuring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal. The movie is nominated for eight Oscars, including best picture.
Hollywood careers don’t always begin where you expect them to, as Jessie Buckley, Teyana Taylor and Emma Stone could tell you.
A son of Puerto Rican parents who grew up in the Bronx, Barretto moved between jazz and Latin music with relentless creativity. Hear 12 indestructible tracks.
By Giovanni Russonello
The singer-songwriter’s latest album, “You’re Free to Go,” has poppier influences undergirding its signature gut punch.
The hit show is wrapping up, but its legacy will live on in a tourism boom and a blossoming local TV industry.
By Imogen West-Knights and Ellie Smith
Maggie Gyllenhaal’s “The Bride!” imagines an empowered mate for the monster. We look back at other memorable cinematic versions.
Andrea Fraser had long felt that she was to blame for the years her mother, Carmen de Monteflores, was overlooked. Now Carmen is 92. Can the Whitney Biennial make amends?
By Zachary Small and Lucia Bell-Epstein
For Bethany Collins, Herman Melville’s novel is rife with centuries-old political anxieties that still resonate today.
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a sequence from her Oscar-nominated film, featuring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal.
“Please, give the people what they want for once,” the talk show host appealed to President Trump. “This is our destiny together, you and me. Think about it.”
The National Capital Planning Commission received about 32,000 messages during its public comment period. Suffice it to say: Many people are not happy with the president’s ballroom plans.
By Luke Broadwater and Dylan Freedman
The Justice Department lawsuit says the concert giant acts as a monopoly in the music industry, a charge the company denies.
Nick Ut, the freelancer long credited for the award-winning photo from the Vietnam War, says a Netflix documentary questioning his work has defamed him.
By Derrick Bryson Taylor
The Lazours’ intimate new musical about illness and mortality is also about finding solace in other people, and in art.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Listen to Ella Langley’s Hot 100 hit and more songs about a place that’s long been a source of musical inspiration.
He covered Philadelphia with more than 50,000 square feet of madcap mosaics, showcasing his work at the Magic Gardens Museum.
The numeraio Pasquale De Stefano’s handmade market signs are a dying breed of everyday beauty in a baroque city.
Several promising titles are coming this month, including a new series starring Rachel Weisz and the feature-length sequel to “Peaky Blinders.”
In the stage versions of two beloved books, the most impressive moments emerge when the productions stray from the source material.
In the state of Michoacán, industrial agriculture and organized crime threaten a cottage industry.
By Michael Snyder and César Rodríguez
Benjamin Millepied’s “Romeo and Juliet Suite,” with its unusual approach to dance coupling and live performance, comes to the Park Avenue Armory.
The Chicago Symphony Orchestra has placed a huge bet on Klaus Mäkelä for its future. It’s still too soon to tell whether that will pay off.
Yuval Sharon, known for his bold approach to opera, is making his Met debut with what he has called “the single hardest work” to stage.
This month’s picks include the animated feature films that are competing for an Academy Award on March 15.
The new series, streaming on Prime Video, tells the story of the famous detective’s youth with the trademark swagger of the producer Guy Ritchie.
David Novros has spent years finessing and repainting site-specific artworks in his SoHo space.
The Oscar nominee Autumn Durald Arkapaw’s ambitious collaboration with Ryan Coogler was also risky, starting with the very heavy large-format cameras.
There are plenty of reasons to consider collecting and playing LPs of your favorite music. Saving money isn’t one of them.
The military operation’s name “is different from its original title, which was ‘Operation Epstein-o Distract-o,’” Jimmy Kimmel said.
The new musical from the comedian Amber Ruffin has a wholesome moral and silliness in spades.
The orchestra returned to Carnegie Hall for three concerts, led by Andris Nelsons, in which the playing was inconsistent but also moving.
By Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim
Test your knowledge of literature and geography with this short quiz.
You’ll rebuild a community in a spinoff that emulates cozy games like Stardew Valley and Animal Crossing: New Horizons.
Annabelle Lopez Ochoa’s new ballet, based on the life of one of the first modern lesbians, is changing how dancers view their traditional roles.
By Laura Cappelle and Sophie Stafford
Onscreen and behind the scenes, the movie is about the pursuit of liberation, not just for its characters, but also for filmmaking itself.
Opening a decade after “Fun Home” debuted on Broadway, the new musical “Starstruck” has a lesbian protagonist and a female creative team. That still seems radical.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
A jury will decide whether the music colossus, which owns venues, represents artists and operates Ticketmaster, is a monopoly, as the Justice Department contends.
By Ben Sisario and David McCabe
A new exhibition in the director’s native Athens showcases his work as a photographer. “I’d like to take a break from making films,” he said. “For now, at least.”
Staffers at Film at Lincoln Center keep a list of the incorrect movie titles they’ve heard from patrons. That list is very, very long.
By Matthew Huff and Tala Safie
The new limited series starring Leo Woodall and Rachel Weisz premieres, and two true-crime documentaries air.
We’d like you to look at one piece of art for 10 minutes, uninterrupted.
The vampire drama was named outstanding cast and, in an upset, its star won best lead actor. Other victors included Catherine O’Hara for “The Studio.”
With Connor Storrie of “Heated Rivalry” hosting, this weekend’s “Saturday Night Live” featured cameos by U.S. Olympic hockey stars.
This month offers St. Patrick’s Day and the Oscars, vampires and Mapplethorpe, as well as free ice skating and a final bow from Jonathan Groff.
Benjamin Millepied’s “Romeo and Juliet Suite” involves a mixed approach to performance, as well as mixed gender pairings for its star-crossed lovers.