article_id: nyt_158
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/theodore-schleifer?page=6
title: Theodore Schleifer
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I’ve spent the last decade writing about the ultrawealthy — their soft power, their civic responsibilities and their bank accounts.
I’ve especially focused on the billionaires of Silicon Valley, who are some of the wealthiest people in the world and often have the ambitions to match. But I’m interested in any rich personality in any industry who is doing something provocative, fascinating or unexpected.
Elon Musk, of course, is a focus these days — but so is the broader Silicon Valley right, which I’ve covered for years. These tech leaders are emboldened and they have their fingerprints all over the Trump administration.
I’m interested in everything the billionaire class touches: philanthropy, family offices, taxes, luxury real estate and sports ownership. Generally, the more secretive the project, the more interested I am.
I’m based in Washington.
My formative years in journalism were spent in San Francisco, where I had an up-close view of the extraordinary wealth created during this era of capitalism. I spent four years at Vox Media’s Recode, writing about venture capital and the ultrarich of Silicon Valley. In 2021, I joined the new media company Puck as one of its first founding employees, giving me an appreciation for entrepreneurship and what it is like to help build a start-up.
I joined the Times in 2024 to write about the presidential election. This is my second tour of duty in Washington after covering campaign finance for CNN during the 2016 presidential cycle.
A lot of my best work has been at the intersection of these two company towns: how Washington’s players are shaping the future of Silicon Valley, or how tech titans are trying to influence the nation’s policymakers.
I like to play pickup basketball and hike; I’ve been to 43 of the 63 national parks, with designs on hitting all of them. (Doable, unless they keep adding more.)
I grew up in Dover, Del., and graduated from Princeton University.
As a Times journalist, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook . I do not actively trade stock in companies. I do not donate to political campaigns or causes.
And most importantly, I strive to be fair. I write about powerful figures, and take that responsibility seriously. I check every fact I cite, and I choose every word carefully.
I would love your ideas for stories or things that strike you as surprising or not publicly known. Please email me or DM me on X with tips or story ideas. I’m happy to explain how anonymity works — I know talking to a reporter can be scary — and how I protect people who talk to me.
Email: theodore.schleifer@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
A new ad from a progressive challenger, Nida Allam, attacks Representative Valerie Foushee over financial backing she has received from defense contractors and the A.I. industry.
By Theodore Schleifer and Lisa Lerer
The primary race for Senate in Texas has become the most expensive on record, with John Cornyn and James Talarico heavily outspending their rivals. But Mr. Cornyn seems to be in trouble.
By Theodore Schleifer
A.I. companies, along with allied groups and executives, spent at least $83 million on federal elections last year, and huge amounts are set to arrive this year.
By Theodore Schleifer and Matt Zdun
Meta’s biggest election investment aims to prevent state legislation that it fears could inhibit artificial intelligence development. Its spending starts this week in Texas and Illinois.
By Theodore Schleifer and Matt Zdun
A crypto-backed super PAC plans to spend $1.5 million against Mr. Green, a member of the House Financial Services Committee who has expressed concerns about cryptocurrency.
By Theodore Schleifer and Shane Goldmacher
Anthropic and OpenAI now have their own well-funded political groups that will square off in the midterm elections over artificial intelligence safety and regulation.
By Theodore Schleifer
“Donald Trump has 99 problems going into the midterms,” one Democratic strategist said. “But money ain’t one.”
By Shane Goldmacher and Theodore Schleifer
Senator John Cornyn, once seen as a potential Republican leader in his chamber, is now depending on wealthy party donors to survive a right-wing challenge.
By Theodore Schleifer and J. David Goodman
All have amassed enormous war chests, new filings show, making them the financial wild cards of this year’s midterm elections and feared political spenders.
By Theodore Schleifer
Chris Larsen and Tim Draper, two outspoken Silicon Valley leaders, are planning to spend tens of millions of dollars to elect moderate state lawmakers this year.
By Theodore Schleifer
Sergey Brin donated $20 million to a new political drive aimed at solving California’s housing crisis, spurring other billionaires to pitch in. Their efforts may also help ward off a wealth tax.
By Laurel Rosenhall and Theodore Schleifer
That would be a major jump from $72 billion last year, as the tech giant aims to compete in the artificial intelligence race.
By Eli Tan and Mike Isaac
Two leaders of a political security group talked about what they’re seeing and hearing.
Elon Musk, the world’s richest person, backed Nate Morris, a Republican businessman, in the primary race to succeed Senator Mitch McConnell in Kentucky.
By Theodore Schleifer
More large donations from wealthy Silicon Valley figures are expected as they try to marshal opposition to a proposed ballot measure that would impose a new tax on billionaires.
By Theodore Schleifer and Ryan Mac
Sergey Brin is joining his Google co-founder, Larry Page, in reducing ties to the state where they built their fortunes.
By Ryan Mac, Theodore Schleifer and Heather Knight
The billionaire and philanthropist has made a nearly $8 billion payment to the private foundation of his ex-wife, Melinda French Gates, tax filings show.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe, Ian Mount, Vivienne Walt and Theodore Schleifer
It’s hard right now to be a progressive Democrat in the heart of America’s tech industry.
By Theodore Schleifer
The president, his family and some of their closest associates have engaged in a sprawling campaign of deals that stretches across industries and the globe.
By Lazaro Gamio and Amy Schoenfeld Walker
It’s uncertain whether the proposal will reach the statewide ballot in November, but some billionaires like Peter Thiel and Larry Page may be unwilling to take the risk.
By Ryan Mac, Theodore Schleifer and Heather Knight
Larry and David Ellison didn’t always have a close relationship. Now they’re one of the most intriguing partnerships in business.
By Theodore Schleifer
The huge sum shows that while the Koch network may not hold significant power at high levels of the Republican Party, it remains a financial juggernaut.
By Theodore Schleifer and Ashley Cai
The main dark-money group backing Kamala Harris and Joe Biden raised a staggering $613 million last year, while its pro-Trump counterpart brought in $275 million, new filings show.
By Theodore Schleifer and Ashley Cai
The Hollywood star was an unusually hands-on activist and donor, whose deep understanding of politics set him apart from other celebrities.
By Katie Glueck and Adam Nagourney
His library foundation has told the I.R.S. that by the end of 2027 it expects to bring in just $11.3 million — not nearly enough for a traditional presidential library.
By David A. Fahrenthold, Shane Goldmacher, Tyler Pager and Theodore Schleifer
The philanthropist known for donating to historically Black colleges and nonprofits working on climate change offered the news by updating an October blog post.
By Nicholas Kulish and Theodore Schleifer
A Trump-aligned political group is quietly spending millions to help state Republicans have a friendlier House map in 2028 — not in 2026, as with all of his other redistricting efforts.
By Theodore Schleifer and Kellen Browning
Gov. Kathy Hochul received nearly $250,000 for her re-election campaign from donors eager to have her sign a bill that would regulate the A.I. field in New York.
The philanthropy has become one of America’s biggest, but most of its giving went to charities closely tied to the world’s richest man.
By Theodore Schleifer and David A. Fahrenthold
David Sacks, the Trump administration’s A.I. and crypto czar, has helped formulate policies that aid his Silicon Valley friends and many of his own tech investments.
By Cecilia Kang, Tripp Mickle, Ryan Mac, David Yaffe-Bellany and Theodore Schleifer
As artificial intelligence companies prepare to pour money into the midterm elections, some in the A.I. world are hatching plans of their own to curb the industry’s influence.
By Theodore Schleifer
A ticket will cost $1 million at each event.
By Theodore Schleifer and Kenneth P. Vogel
Trump keeps showing he is not as isolationist as many supporters had hoped.
By Jess Bidgood and David E. Sanger
Here are some of the notable guests invited to President Trump’s dinner for Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia.
By The New York Times
Having struck an uneasy truce with the president, Elon Musk is starting to make political appearances again, and his allies are planning a DOGE reunion party.
By Theodore Schleifer
President Trump ordered the Justice Department to investigate the dealings of Democrats with Jeffrey Epstein, after a week in which his own relationship with the convicted sex offender was in the spotlight.
By Erica L. Green, Glenn Thrush and Alan Feuer
The Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said its restructured organization, Biohub, would lead its focus on artificial intelligence and scientific research.
By Eli Tan, Mike Isaac and Theodore Schleifer
There has been little evidence that Mayor Eric Adams’s decision to end his re-election bid has had a major effect on Andrew Cuomo’s bid to attract donors or voters.
By Benjamin Oreskes and Jeffery C. Mays
Zohran Mamdani and Curtis Sliwa hit the campaign trail on Monday after Eric Adams left the race, while Andrew Cuomo called donors.
By Emma G. Fitzsimmons and Benjamin Oreskes
Facing a nascent administration investigation, Alex Soros privately pledged that the Open Society Foundations would back down only “over my dead body.”
By Kenneth P. Vogel, Nicholas Kulish, Kate Kelly, Theodore Schleifer and David A. Fahrenthold
For decades, Mr. Soros’s philanthropic empire has sought to advance a liberal, democratic agenda around the globe. He is a frequent target of right-wing attacks.
By Theodore Schleifer and Nicholas Kulish
The new PAC, which is the second that Meta has unveiled in the last month, is aimed at backing those in support of the artificial intelligence industry.
By Eli Tan and Theodore Schleifer
The database billionaire and his son, David, are Trump favorites. The family could soon control an empire that includes CBS, Paramount, Warner, CNN and a piece of TikTok.
By David Streitfeld and Theodore Schleifer
The institutions published an open letter to defend their missions amid fears the Trump administration could target their tax-exempt status.
By Theodore Schleifer
In the wake of Charlie Kirk’s killing, President Trump and his allies have laid out a broad plan to target liberal groups, monitor speech, revoke visas and designate certain groups as domestic terrorists.
By Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Andrew Duehren, Kenneth P. Vogel and Katie Rogers
Voters will decide whether three Democratic State Supreme Court justices will keep their seats in a swing state that will be crucial to the next presidential election.
The effort, called the Fellowship PAC, is the crypto industry’s latest move to help elect legislators that will force through its interests in Washington.
By Theodore Schleifer, David Yaffe-Bellany and Shane Goldmacher
President Trump has promised to bring the killer to justice while using the moment to blame the left — and only the left — more broadly.
By Tyler Pager and Nick Corasaniti
Vice President JD Vance urged major contributors to win the 2026 midterms to honor Charlie Kirk, who was Mr. Vance’s close friend.
By Theodore Schleifer
Total spending could top $200 million in a November contest that could help determine control of the House next year.
By Theodore Schleifer, Shane Goldmacher and Laurel Rosenhall
The two PACs reflect a new level of political engagement by companies like Meta and investors such as Andreessen Horowitz, which are spending heavily on artificial intelligence.
By Theodore Schleifer and Eli Tan
Officials made no mention of politics in cutting ties with a network of nonprofit funds, but Bill Gates has made other moves to insulate the charity from political pressures.
By Theodore Schleifer
Democrats hoping to retake the Senate in the midterm elections next year are targeting the seat of Senator Collins, a Maine Republican who is seen as a moderate.
By Theodore Schleifer and Brooks Barnes
Oracle’s co-founder and the world’s second-richest person pledges to concentrate his vast resources on his own research institute and for-profit ventures to address health, hunger and climate change.
By Theodore Schleifer and Nicholas Kulish
When it comes to attracting mega-donors, Republicans are crushing Democrats.
By Theodore Schleifer
The money is meant to beat Democrats, but some Republicans worry it could be used to beat Republicans, too.
By Theodore Schleifer
How the president is using the levers of government power against the news industry.
The two men spoke about Mr. Musk’s push to create the America Party before the midterm elections. Mr. Yarvin has expressed support for a monarchy, along with provocative ideas about race.
By Theodore Schleifer
Donors hope to raise huge sums of money to help those fighting what they see as a drift toward authoritarianism, but without attracting unwanted White House attention.
By Theodore Schleifer
Building a new political party to rival the Democrats and Republicans is enormously difficult and expensive. Small wonder it hasn’t been done.
By Reid J. Epstein and Theodore Schleifer