article_id: nyt_160
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/stephanie-swart?page=8
title: Stephanie Swart
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Recent and archived work by Stephanie Swart for The New York Times
Who is in charge of Iran’s government after airstrikes killed the supreme leader and some of his defense and security officials? Erika Solomon, our bureau chief for Iran and Iraq, describes what we know.
By Erika Solomon, Nikolay Nikolov, Jon Miller, Stephanie Swart, Rafaela Balster, Samuel Granados and Christina Shaman
Our national security correspondent David E. Sanger maps Iran’s options for retaliation if the United States or Israel strikes.
By David E. Sanger, Coleman Lowndes, Abdi Latif Dahir, Samuel Granados, Stephanie Swart, Lazaro Gamio and Ray Whitehouse
The Times reporter Maria Abi-Habib describes the surge of violence in Mexico that erupted after a government raid killed the powerful cartel boss known as El Mencho.
By Maria Abi-Habib, Leila Medina, Rebecca Suner, Devon Lum, Pablo Robles and Stephanie Swart
Kansai International Airport, which is located near Osaka, Japan, hasn’t lost a single piece of luggage since it opened in 1994. River Akira Davis, our Tokyo correspondent, visited the airport to understand how Japanese culture has influenced its success.
By River Akira Davis, Nailah Morgan, Jon Hazell, Stephanie Swart, Daishi Kusunoki and Hisako Ueno
Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong describes America’s shifting relationship with polar research amid the threat of rising sea levels.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Kassie Bracken, Jon Miller, Stephanie Swart and Anna Casper
The Census Bureau released data showing that the U.S. trade deficit in goods last year was the highest on record. Our chief economics correspondent, Ben Casselman, breaks down whether President Trump’s tariff policies had their intended impact in 2025.
By Ben Casselman, Sutton Raphael, Nikolay Nikolov, Stephanie Swart, Keith Collins, Thomas Vollkommer and Luke Piotrowski
Beneath the Manhattan side of New York City’s most storied bridge lies acres of public land that was once fenced off and nearly forgotten. Michael Kimmelman, architecture critic and editor-at-large of Headway, tours the space, known by some as Gotham Park, with one of its champions to see how it’s being transformed.
By Michael Kimmelman, Gabriel Blanco, Stephanie Swart and Edward Vega
Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong has spent more than a month on a South Korean ship in Antarctica with nearly 40 scientists from around the world. Here’s everything he eats in a day.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Leila Medina, Sutton Raphael, Rebecca Suner and Stephanie Swart
Amtrak trains are often criticized for outdated cars, limited accessibility and slow travel times. Now, the rail operator says it’s ready to change that. Our reporter Gabe Castro-Root takes us inside Amtrak’s new fleet of trains and what they could mean for millions of riders.
By Gabe Castro-Root, Gabriel Blanco and Stephanie Swart
Scientists on the Thwaites Glacier attempted to install equipment beneath the ice to better understand how it is melting. Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong walks us through their landmark experiment and the bittersweet outcome.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Christina Thornell, Jon Miller, Stephanie Swart and Shafik Quoraishee
Our reporter Anatoly Kurmanaev looks around Caracas, Venezuela, describing how the “Free Maduro” graffiti and billboards around the city, which also appear on Delcy Rodríguez’s social media pages, help her as she balances her ties to Nicolás Maduro with her political rebranding.
By Anatoly Kurmanaev, Melanie Bencosme, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
One of Donald Trump’s central campaign promises was to raise tariffs on imports from multiple countries. Ana Swanson, a New York Times reporter, analyzes data from the past year to examine how those tariffs have affected the economy.
By Ana Swanson, Leila Medina, June Kim and Stephanie Swart
Do snowy owls live in Antarctica? What’s the most alarming measurement scientists are watching for? What do you eat and drink? Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong answers some questions from students around the world.
Bad weather ​delayed expedition scientists’​ ​efforts to set up camp on Thwaites Glacier ​in Antarctica ​and take measurements ​to determine how quickly it is melting. After the skies cleared, our journalists​, Raymond Zhong and Chang W. Lee​, took us along for their first steps on Thwaites.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Christina Thornell, Jon Miller and Stephanie Swart
Our national security correspondent David Sanger describes how President Trump’s escalations with Europe over Greenland seem to have led to him backing down.
By David E. Sanger, Gabriel Blanco, Nikolay Nikolov, Stephanie Swart and Whitney Shefte
Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong takes a trip into the New York Times archives to see how our understanding of Antarctica has changed over the past century.
By Raymond Zhong, Kassie Bracken, Christina Thornell, David Seekamp, Stephanie Swart, Phil Caller, Chang W. Lee and Nikolay Nikolov
Is it hard to fly a helicopter in the Antarctic cold? What do penguins sound like? How about the instruments designed to test the waters below the Thwaites Glacier? Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong finds some answers to viewer questions.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, David Seekamp, Kassie Bracken, Jon Hazell and Stephanie Swart
Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong meets with Paul Anker, a drilling engineer aboard the icebreaker Araon, to discuss the stakes, preparations and pressure of the mission to drill a hole in the Thwaites Glacier to measure the water beneath.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Christina Thornell, Jon Miller, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
As the icebreaker heads into the sea ice zone around Antarctica, penguins and seals start to appear. A scientist on the vessel teaches our climate reporter, Raymond Zhong, to identify different kinds of sea ice.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Christina Thornell, David Seekamp, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
Every year The New York Times’s Travel desk compiles the 52 places to go. Gabriela Bhaskar visits two locations.
By Gabriela Bhaskar, Karen Hanley and Stephanie Swart
Our reporter Raymond Zhong takes a first round of questions about the trip to Antarctica. First up: How can data gathered on the trip tell us how much time is left for the glaciers?
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Rebecca Suner, Stephanie Swart and Christina Thornell
Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong describes how the fast-melting Thwaites Glacier of Antarctica, is like a cork in a bottle: If it starts to really disintegrate, many more glaciers around it could do the same, with major consequences for sea levels.
By Raymond Zhong, Kassie Bracken, Christina Thornell, Jon Miller, Stephanie Swart, Leila Medina, Phil Caller and Nikolay Nikolov
How much time does the Thwaites Glacier in Antarctica have left? Our reporter Raymond Zhong and our photographer Chang W. Lee are joining scientists and engineers who measure how much sea levels could rise as a result of melting ice.
By Raymond Zhong, Chang W. Lee, Christina Thornell, Kassie Bracken, Jon Miller, Thomas Vollkommer, Leila Medina, Stephanie Swart, Nikolay Nikolov and Phil Caller
What do you pack for a two-month expedition to Antarctica? Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong shows us what he is bringing along for his journey.
By Raymond Zhong, Christina Thornell, Kassie Bracken, Christina Shaman, Jon Miller, Leila Medina, Edward Vega, Stephanie Swart and Rebecca Suner
To get to the fastest-melting glacier in Antarctica, flying on a helicopter over icy seas is mandatory. Our climate reporter Raymond Zhong learns what to do in case of a helicopter crash.
By Raymond Zhong, Christina Thornell, Kassie Bracken, Leila Medina, Thomas Vollkommer, Edward Vega, Jon Hazell, Stephanie Swart and Phil Caller
Fires, severe weather and collisions with icebergs are all risks when traveling to one of the fastest-melting glaciers on the continent. Our science reporter Raymond Zhong shares a glimpse into the survival training for his upcoming Antarctic trip.
By Raymond Zhong, Christina Thornell, Kassie Bracken, Leila Medina, Jon Miller, Edward Vega, Stephanie Swart, Nikolay Nikolov and Phil Caller
There was a lot of forgettable TV in 2025, but some shows stood out above the rest. James Poniewozik, Chief TV Critic for The New York Times, talks through some of his favorites.
By James Poniewozik, Gabriel Blanco, Sutton Raphael and Stephanie Swart
For years, rumors swirled about where Jeffrey Epstein’s wealth came from. A Times investigation reveals the truth of how a college dropout clawed his way to the pinnacle of American finance and society.
By Jessica Silver-Greenberg, David Enrich, Claire Hogan, John Pappas, Stephanie Swart and Zach Caldwell
Every year, Jon Caramanica and Lindsay Zoladz, music critics for The New York Times, pick their favorite albums. The two of them discuss some of their choices, and they don’t always agree.
By Jon Caramanica, Lindsay Zoladz, Stephanie Swart and Edward Vega
For more than a decade, the Supreme Court’s conservative majority has chipped away at Congress’s power to insulate independent agencies from politics. Now, the court has signaled its willingness to expand presidential power once again.
By Ann E. Marimow, Claire Hogan, Stephanie Swart and Pierre Kattar
After months of holding steady, President Trump‘s approval rating has dipped over the past several weeks, according to a New York Times analysis of public polling.
By Tyler Pager, Claire Hogan, Whitney Shefte and Stephanie Swart
Journalists from the New York Times Styles desk give their picks for the most stylish people of 2025.
By The Styles Desk, Edward Vega, Chevaz Clarke and Stephanie Swart
Hamed Aleaziz, our immigration reporter, describes the sweeping changes the Trump administration has made that affect asylum seekers — people fleeing harm in their home countries — since the shooting of two National Guard members in Washington.
By Hamed Aleaziz, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Leila Medina, Stephanie Swart, June Kim and Whitney Shefte
Venezuela doesn’t play a large role in the drug trade to the United States, so what is motivating the massive military buildup? Julian E. Barnes, who reports on intelligence and international security, discusses the issues with our senior writer Katrin Bennhold.
By Julian E. Barnes, Katrin Bennhold, Nikolay Nikolov, Leila Medina, Lazaro Gamio, Samuel Granados and Stephanie Swart
President Trump has made misleading statements about the cost of a Thanksgiving meal, turkey and gasoline.
By Linda Qiu, Claire Hogan, Stephanie Swart and Pierre Kattar
What’s a worst-case scenario for hurricane flooding in New York City? Our reporter Hilary Howard, who covers the environment in the region, explores how bad it could get as climate change powers increasingly extreme rainfall and devastating storm surges.
By Hilary Howard, Gabriel Blanco, Stephanie Swart and K.K. Rebecca Lai
What does the September jobs report, delayed by six weeks because of the government shutdown, say about the economy? Lydia DePillis, our economics reporter, describes how the report, which was better than expected, comes at a moment of deep uncertainty.
By Lydia DePillis, Claire Hogan, Stephanie Swart, Gabriel Blanco and Jacqueline Gu
The commerce secretary, Howard Lutnick, is involved in A.I. data center deals that overlap with work his family is doing. Our investigative reporter Eric Lipton describes what we know about these deals for massive data center projects, one of which includes a planned nuclear power plant to be named after President Trump.
By Eric Lipton, Christina Shaman, June Kim, Zach Wood, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
In the largest comprehensive survey of immigrants in President Trump’s second term, The New York Times and KFF, a health-care-focused polling organization, asked immigrants about their views and experiences. Ruth Igielnik, who covers public opinion for The Times, describes the key findings.
By Ruth Igielnik, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Stephanie Swart and Ashley Cai
World leaders are meeting at the COP30 this week to discuss climate. The U.S. was not part of this meeting. Somini Sengupta, our international climate reporter, discusses what this absence means.
By Somini Sengupta, Katrin Bennhold, Christina Thornell, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
Our investigative reporter Steve Eder provides context about Jeffrey Epstein’s relationship with President Donald Trump based on information from over 20,000 pages of documents from Epstein’s estate released by the House Oversight Committee on Wednesday.
By Steve Eder, Claire Hogan, James Surdam, Stephanie Swart and Nikolay Nikolov
President Trump has threatened to send troops to Nigeria, where he says Christianity faces an “existential threat,” an accusation that Nigeria has denied. Ruth Maclean, our West Africa bureau chief, describes how the violence in Nigeria is affecting people of all religions, not only Christians.
By Ruth Maclean, Katrin Bennhold, Christina Thornell, Leila Medina, Nikolay Nikolov and Stephanie Swart
Voters in California approved a redistricting plan intended to partially neutralize a push by President Trump to draw up more safe Republican House seats before next year’s election. Kellen Browning, a political reporter for The New York Times based in San Francisco, explains how it happened and what’s next.
By Kellen Browning, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Stephanie Swart and Jon Hazell
Practitioners of an annual ritual to clean deceased relatives’ bones are grappling with a new challenge: tourists. Jack Nicas, our Mexico City bureau chief, visits Pomuch, a town in Eastern Mexico that celebrates Día de Muertos unlike any other place.
By Jack Nicas, Marian Carrasquero, Leila Medina, Rebecca Suner and Stephanie Swart
In conversation with Well’s fitness editor, Molly Mirhashem, Talya Minsberg, a Times reporter and a 12-time N.Y.C. marathon runner, takes us through the course to share how she prepares for race day and gives guidance to fellow racers and first-timers.
By Molly Mirhashem, Talya Minsberg, Theodore Tae, Stephanie Swart, Luke Piotrowski, Melanie Bencosme and Thomas Vollkommer
What’s the main goal of the U.S. military buildup in the Caribbean, and who in the Trump administration is behind it? Anatoly Kurmanaev, a New York Times reporter who covered Venezuela, discusses with Katrin Bennhold what we know and don’t know.
By Katrin Bennhold, Anatoly Kurmanaev, Leila Medina, Christina Thornell, Jon Hazell and Stephanie Swart
President Trump has embarked on a six-day diplomatic tour of Asia, testing his role as a statesman and negotiator as he pursues a trade deal with China. Erica L. Green, the White House correspondent for The New York Times, explains what’s at stake.
By Erica L. Green, Christina Thornell, Karen Hanley, Stephanie Swart, Pierre Kattar and David Seekamp
A 50-block stretch of Los Angeles has become one of the most notorious child sex trafficking corridors in the United States. Our reporter Emily Baumgaertner Nunn rides with undercover officers trying to rescue the girls and arrest the traffickers.
By Emily Baumgaertner Nunn, Christina Shaman, Kassie Bracken, Stephanie Swart, June Kim and Christopher Orr
$20 billion bailout for Argentina comes with strings attached — namely, that the ruling party of his ally, President Javier Milei of Argentina, must prevail in the country’s legislative elections this month. Katrin Bennhold and Emma Bubola, reporters at The New York Times, talk about Mr. Milei, a polarizing figure who promised to revolutionize Argentina.
By Katrin Bennhold, Emma Bubola, Christina Thornell, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
Carol Rosenberg, a reporter who has covered the U.S. military prison at Guantánamo Bay since it opened in 2002, describes a collection of stylized portraits of its detainees in the war against terrorism. The photos were taken as part of a Red Cross program for the detainees to communicate with their families.
By Carol Rosenberg, Laura Bult, Coleman Lowndes, Stephanie Swart, June Kim and Zach Caldwell
Consumers are facing greater costs for their 2026 A.C.A. health coverage as Congress continues to debate whether to extend subsidies that help people afford their premiums. Margot Sanger-Katz, a health care policy reporter for The New York Times, explains why. Editors’ note: This video was originally published Oct. 22 and was updated on Dec. 10 to reflect news developments.
By Margot Sanger-Katz, Laura Bult, Claire Hogan, Zach Wood and Stephanie Swart
In just eight minutes, thieves stole priceless jewelry from the Louvre Museum on Sunday after using a truck-mounted ladder to break into a second-floor window. Catherine Porter, an international correspondent for The New York Times based in Paris, explains how it unfolded.
By Catherine Porter, Rebecca Suner, Stephanie Swart, James Surdam, Samuel Granados and Elena Shao
The U.S. Border Patrol is expanding its mission to major cities across America, and building a splashy social media campaign to promote it. We joined them in Chicago — hundreds of miles away from the nearest foreign border — to observe how the agency’s mission has changed.
By Hamed Aleaziz, Jeremy Raff, Laura Bult, Thomas Vollkommer, Nick Hughes and Stephanie Swart
An organization that fought abortion rights in the United States is now focusing on the United Kingdom. Jane Bradley, an investigative reporter at The New York Times, explains.
By Jane Bradley, Christina Shaman, Stephanie Swart, Rebecca Suner, Karen Hanley, Alexandra Ostasiewicz and Phil Caller
Gen Z protests are raging against political establishments across the world, from Madagascar to Nepal. Katrin Bennhold and Hannah Beech, reporters for The New York Times, discuss what is causing these protests and why an anime-inspired symbol keeps appearing at demonstrations.
By Hannah Beech, Katrin Bennhold, Christina Thornell, Nikolay Nikolov and Stephanie Swart
In the days before President Trump announced that he would send troops to what he called a “war-ravaged” Portland, Ore., federal officers described the protests there as “low-energy.” Anna Griffin, who is reporting in Portland for The New York Times, describes what she has seen there.
By Anna Griffin, Alexandra Ostasiewicz and Stephanie Swart
Emily Damari spent 471 days in captivity in Gaza. Since being released, Ms. Damari, a British Israeli, has become a symbol of resilience and a voice for the release of all remaining hostages held by Hamas. Avishag Shar-Yashuv, a photographer for The New York Times, has been following Ms. Damari’s journey.
By Avishag Shaar-Yashuv, Nikolay Nikolov and Stephanie Swart
Coral Davenport, a New York Times reporter, explains how Russell Vought, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, plans to circumvent Congress’s budgetary powers to advance the Trump administration’s agenda.
By Coral Davenport, Melanie Bencosme, Stephanie Swart, Laura Bult, June Kim and Ray Whitehouse
How did pressure from President Trump lead to this week’s extraordinary indictment of the former F.B.I. director James Comey? Maggie Haberman, White House correspondent at The New York Times, explains.
By Maggie Haberman, Alexandra Ostasiewicz and Stephanie Swart
To President Trump, the veracity of statistics and scorekeepers turns on a dime. Linda Qiu, a New York Times reporter, explains Trump’s approach to government data.
By Linda Qiu, Karen Hanley, Stephanie Swart and Ray Whitehouse
President Trump’s speech at the United Nations took an isolating stance. David Sanger, a White House correspondent for The New York Times, explains what that means for the United States.
By David E. Sanger, Melanie Bencosme, Stephanie Swart and Gabriel Blanco
Errol Musk has been accused of sexually abusing five of his children and stepchildren since 1993, a Times investigation found. Family members had appealed to Elon Musk for help.
By John Eligon, Kirsten Grind, Karen Hanley, June Kim and Stephanie Swart
The United States and China are in a new space race to the moon. Eric Lipton, an investigative reporter for The New York Times, explains why the U.S. could lose this race.
By Eric Lipton, Melanie Bencosme, Stephanie Swart, David Seekamp and Zach Wood
Plus, Robert Redford’s legacy.
By Tracy Mumford, Will Jarvis, Ian Stewart, Jessica Metzger, Mark Landler and Mona Boshnaq
President Trump will be in the U.K. this week in an unprecedented second state visit. Mark Landler, the London bureau chief of The New York Times, describes the efforts the British are making to stay on Trump’s good side, and what they hope to get in return.
By Mark Landler, Nikolay Nikolov, Jon Hazell, Christina Shaman and Stephanie Swart
What’s it like at the Guantánamo Bay Naval Base 24 years after the Sept. 11 attacks? Carol Rosenberg, who has been covering the base since the first detainees were brought there in 2002, is there and explains.
By Carol Rosenberg, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Jon Hazell and Stephanie Swart
The Upshot reporter Aatish Bhatia, who is also a physicist, explains why the Western zodiac calendar is 2,000 years out of date. And it might change your understanding of what zodiac constellation was actually in the sky the day you were born.
By Aatish Bhatia, Laura Bult, Sutton Raphael, Stephanie Swart and Dion Lee
MJ Franklin, an editor at The New York Times Book Review, recommends three great books that came out this summer.
By MJ Franklin, Karen Hanley, Claire Hogan and Stephanie Swart
At a large Chinese military parade to commemorate the end of World War II, President Xi Jinping welcomed authoritarian leaders and debuted China’s newest weaponry. David Pierson, a foreign correspondent at The New York Times, explains what this means for the United States and the world.
By David Pierson, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Kassie Bracken and Stephanie Swart
Moscow is hosting a big summer festival as Russia continues its war in Ukraine. Katrin Bennhold, a senior international reporter for The New York Times, talks with Ivan Nechepurenko, a Times reporter in Russia, about the spectacle and what it says about Russian public opinion more than three and a half years into the war.
By Ivan Nechepurenko, Katrin Bennhold, Christina Thornell, Melanie Bencosme and Stephanie Swart
Twenty years after Hurricane Katrina, is the federal government letting go of the lessons it learned? Christopher Flavelle, a New York Times reporter covering how President Trump is transforming the government, explains why FEMA employees are so worried about how the U.S. will handle the next big storm.
By Christopher Flavelle, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Stephanie Swart and Zach Wood
Kilmar Armando Abrego Garcia, the immigrant who was wrongfully expelled to El Salvador in March and then brought back to face criminal charges, was detained again on Monday as the Trump administration indicated that it planned to re-deport him to Uganda. Our reporter Alan Feuer explains the case.
By Alan Feuer, Gabriel Blanco, Jon Hazell and Stephanie Swart
The battle over redistricting is playing out in the country’s two largest states. Texas and California passed redistricting efforts this week that counter each other. David Goodman and Laurel Rosenhall explain how redistricting is playing out in both states and what the final outcome could look like.
By Laurel Rosenhall, J. David Goodman, Rebecca Suner, Leila Medina and Stephanie Swart
President Trump vowed on Monday to lead a movement to eliminate the use of mail-in ballots, continuing his legally dubious crusade against the nation’s voting rules, which he has long attacked and falsely blamed for his 2020 election loss. Nick Corasaniti, a Times political reporter, explains.
By Nick Corasaniti, Gabriel Blanco and Stephanie Swart
The U.S. Forest Service has been sending out crews to fight fires without the recommended masks for decades. Hannah Dreier, a New York Times investigative reporter, reveals the dangerous and sometimes deadly repercussions of sending firefighters into the field unprotected.
By Hannah Dreier, Christina Thornell, Gabriel Blanco, Coleman Lowndes, Stephanie Swart, June Kim, Lauren McCarthy and Nikolay Nikolov
Many people with disabilities depend on Amtrak to travel across the country, but the journey can still present obstacles. Gabe Castro-Root outlines some of the challenges disabled passengers encounter while traveling.
By Gabe Castro-Root, Leila Medina, Gabriel Blanco and Stephanie Swart
Adam Liptak, a New York Times reporter covering the Supreme Court, explains a recent decision by the court on gerrymandering. He spells out how the justices may be poised to eliminate the remaining pillar of the Voting Rights Act.
By Adam Liptak, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Laura Bult, Stephanie Swart and James Surdam
Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, might be preparing his young daughter, Kim Ju-ae, to become his successor. Choe Sang-Hun, the ​Seoul bureau chief for The New York Times, analyzed North Korean state propaganda to find out.
By Choe Sang-Hun, Melanie Bencosme, Nailah Morgan, Stephanie Swart and Shawn Paik
Dwight Garner, Alexandra Jacobs and Jennifer Szalai, book critics at The New York Times, recommend three road trip books.
By Dwight Garner, Alexandra Jacobs, Jennifer Szalai, Karen Hanley, Claire Hogan, Stephanie Swart and Gabriel Blanco