article_id: nyt_166
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7071754/2026/02/26/john-harbaugh-new-york-giants-reputation/
title: What makes John Harbaugh a great coach? We asked his opponents
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
John Harbaugh (left) has earned the respect of many in NFL circles, including former Browns and current Falcons coach Kevin Stefanski. Jason Miller / Getty Images
When Dave Canales interviewed with the Baltimore Ravens before he took the Tampa Bay Buccaneers offensive coordinator job in 2023, he had lunch with John Harbaugh.
At one point after they finished the meal, Canales turned around. When he looked up, the head coach was bussing his tray.
“I’m like, ‘Coach, no, no, please. I’m gonna get killed for this if people find out,’” Canales said with a laugh this week at the NFL Scouting Combine. “But he was serving. And it’s that servanthood, that heart of being able to just give your best to those around you that I really respect and try to emulate in what I do as well.”
Canales didn’t get the job in Baltimore, but he enjoyed spending time with the veteran coach.
“To watch how he impacted everyone and they mirrored his respect, his affection, his humility — everybody was so accommodating,” Canales said. “It felt like home, and it felt like he was at the head of this household.”
Coming off a storied 18-year tenure in Baltimore, Harbaugh has earned plenty of admiration across the NFL. As he transitions to his new job in New York, we wanted to know how his competitors view his sustained success, and the traits that make him a good head coach. So, at the NFL Scouting Combine, we asked them:
Macdonald worked under Harbaugh for nine seasons in Baltimore, including two as defensive coordinator.
“I think the first thing with John is just the person that he is. One thing I’ve learned is you can’t hide who you are. So for him to be able to do that at this level for this long, I mean, if that’s not the staple of what a real deal, authentic leader is about then I don’t know what is … Man of faith, man of integrity, ultra competitive. I think one thing that John and Jim (Harbaugh) do that resonated with me is the support they have for their players of always having their backs, always putting the team first — and the players realize that. They know when you’re for them or not. And John’s been for his players his whole career, and he’s a great example for coaching across the world.”
Monken worked as Harbaugh’s offensive coordinator in Baltimore the last three seasons.
“He’s elite in a lot of areas. I’ve said this many times. He’s got a gift for confronting anything that gets in the way of winning football without being confrontational. He just does. It’s unique. He doesn’t let it linger. He’ll come right down the hall and say, ‘This isn’t good enough. What can we do to change it? Where are we at?’ And the other thing is, the offseason is no joke. It’s football every day, man. How are we going to get better? Every year I was with the Ravens, it was offense 2.0, offense 3.0. What are we going to do to improve, take advantage of our players skill set? So he’s nonstop. He’s about winning football.”
“I’m going to address his past with his dad, right? And so I’ll use it with my parents. A lot of times (with) a good coach, you look at the parents, and I think his dad was a heck of a football coach there. And my dad, I thought, was a pretty good coach, but my mom was even better. I think it starts there. He grew up in a football family, obviously him and his brother. Just when you watch, whether it’s live or you’re watching TV, we can all see what clean, tough football looks like. And I’ve always felt like that’s what the Baltimore Ravens have been, just clean and tough. And clean is not a bad word. It just looks right. Really excited for him to go into that market, there in New York. I know he’ll do a great job. I don’t know the Giants too well, but I do believe they’ve got a pretty talented roster, and it’ll be fun for him.”
“I’ve never played for him. I’ve never coached with him. I would say just his record speaks for itself. I have a lot of respect for what he’s done. I don’t have his secret sauce. I wish I did and to be able to do it at one place for 18 years. But I know that his teams are physical, they’re sound, they play great defense, they force you into mistakes.”
“I have a lot of respect for Coach Harbaugh. We went against each other for 18 years. That AFC North rivalry is second to none. I think his record and his résumé speak for itself. He was a difficult opponent, but there’s a lot of mutual respect between both organizations.
“We never knew what to expect from Coach Harbaugh.The discipline he had was always consistent, and you saw it on the play on the field. But just a tremendous coach. Lots of respect for him.”
“I think one of the things I really respect from their team: an identity, things that you know can stand the test of time and last. When you’re playing his teams through the years, it’s gonna be a tough game, and the attitude, the style of the team. Players may change, and they did through the years, but I thought the identity of John stayed consistent, even though the scheme may change offensively, how they would do things. I think that’s like the mark of a really good coach.”
“Coach Harbs does a great job. Somebody I have a ton of respect for, just competing against him over the years. His teams always played hard, were always sound in everything they did, weren’t going to beat themselves. I think the world of Coach.”
“He’s been doing it a long time. I’ve never had the opportunity to work with Coach Harbaugh, but his leadership, the way he builds a culture. You know exactly what type of team you get every time. It’s a tough, physical team.”
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Charlotte Carroll covers the New York Giants for The Athletic and is currently covering the Paralympics. She previously covered the University of Connecticut basketball and the WNBA's Connecticut Sun for The Athletic and wrote for Sports Illustrated. She interned at The Denver Post and Field & Stream magazine. Follow Charlotte on Twitter @ charlottecrrll