article_id: nyt_170
url: https://www.nytimes.com/ca/section/science/space
title: Space and Astronomy
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Hardy bacteria in a lab survived pressures comparable to an asteroid strike on the red planet, suggesting a hypothetical scenario in which our planet was seeded with life.
By Robin George Andrews
A “back to basics” approach resembles the Apollo program of the 1960s, with more missions launching more often. NASA officials said that it would be safer and faster.
Elon Musk wants to launch a million satellites, but researchers say global warming is changing the upper atmosphere in ways that makes space junk linger.
By Sachi Kitajima Mulkey
The nation’s northern region has led the scientific quest to understand the aurora borealis. This summer, a 10,000-antenna radar is expected to begin the next phase of exploration.
By Alexa Robles-Gil and Michal Siarek
Trump Says He Will Release Files on Aliens and U.F.O.s
President Trump had lashed out at former President Barack Obama earlier Thursday for telling a podcaster that aliens were real.
This Comet Stopped Spinning. Then It Started Rotating Backward.
The unusual event, never seen before, might be a way small comets are “blown to bits” in the solar system.
By Jonathan O’Callaghan
Lost Soviet Moon Lander May Have Been Found
Two research teams have identified possible landing sites for Luna 9, the first human-made object to safely reach the lunar surface. “One of them is wrong,” an expert said.
Musk’s Starlink Blocks Russian Troops’ Internet Access at Ukraine’s Request
It’s unclear what effect the change will have on Russia’s ability to wage war, but Russian military bloggers said troops were experiencing internet outages that hampered frontline communications.
By Paul Sonne and Maria Varenikova
Jeff Bezos’ Rocket Company Pauses Space Tourism to Focus on the Moon
The New Shepard rocket from Blue Origin, which brought 92 people on trips to the edge of space, will cease flying for at least two years as the company prioritizes NASA contracts.
Sonic Booms and Seismic Waves Can Reveal Where Space Junk Crash-Lands
The sensors used to listen for earthquakes could help protect people from the hazards created by falling spacecraft.
By Robin George Andrews
Google’s Former C.E.O. Wants to Build a Cosmic Search Engine
Eric and Wendy Schmidt are backing a start-up-like approach to building a giant space telescope and powerful ground observatories.
John Noble Wilford, Times Reporter Who Covered the Moon Landing, Dies at 92
He gave readers a comprehensive and lyrical account of the historic mission in 1969. His science coverage as a Pulitzer-winning journalist and an author took him around the world.
By Robert D. McFadden
Almost Everything About NASA’s Latest Mission to Mars Is Unusual
The ESCAPADE mission, which launched to space on a Blue Origin rocket on Thursday, breaks the mold of how planetary science missions typically come together.
An Army of Robot Telescopes in Texas Makes the Stars Feel Closer Than Ever
Starfront Observatories allows amateur astronomers to rent a spot for their telescopes and photograph the cosmos over a high-speed data connection.
This Powerful Telescope Quickly Found 2,100 New Asteroids
The Vera C. Rubin Observatory is expected to find millions of unknown objects in our solar system, and perhaps even a mysterious Planet Nine.
Vera Rubin Scientists Reveal Telescope’s First Images
Scenes of nebulas in the Milky Way, a cluster of galaxies and thousands of new asteroids are a teaser of how the U.S.-funded observatory on a mountain in Chile will transform astronomy.
By Kenneth Chang and Katrina Miller
Vera Rubin’s Legacy Lives On in a Troubled Scientific Landscape
A powerful new telescope will usher in a new era of cosmic discovery, but in a political climate vastly different from when it was named for a once overlooked female astronomer.
How Astronomers Will Deal With 60 Million Billion Bytes of Imagery
The Vera C. Rubin Observatory will make the study of stars and galaxies more like the big data-sorting exercises of contemporary genetics and particle physics.
By Kenneth Chang and Irena Hwang
Earth’s Largest Camera Takes 3 Billion-Pixel Images of the Night Sky
At the heart of the new Vera C. Rubin Observatory is a digital camera that will create an unparalleled map of the cosmos.
By Jonathan Corum Kenneth Chang and Marcos Zegers
Happy Birthday, LIGO. Now Drop Dead.
Ten years ago, astronomers made an epic discovery with the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory. Cosmology hasn’t been the same since, and it might not stay that way much longer.
Scientific Discoveries, and Dreams, in the Balance
Research breakthroughs are often sagas of passion, curiosity and sacrifice. If Trump’s proposed budget cuts for 2026 are enacted, many such journeys may never get started.
A Century of Human Detritus, Visualized
“Technostuff” built in the last 100 years outweighs all the living matter on Earth.
A Solstice of the Soul
For his next trick, your cosmic correspondent for the past quarter-century will (try to) retire.
First Close-Up of Star Outside Our Galaxy Shows a Giant About to Blow
Astronomers zoomed in on a stellar behemoth in the Larger Magellanic Cloud, a galaxy that orbits about 160,000 light-years from the Milky Way.
Earth’s shadow temporarily draped the moon in a copper hue before sunrise on Tuesday.
NASA completed a rehearsal to launch the Artemis II rocket on Thursday. The mission would send astronauts around the Moon’s orbit for the first time in more than 50 years.
The musical, called “Galileo,” will star Raúl Esparza, and is scheduled to open in December at the Shubert Theater.
The agency did not complete a practice countdown for a flight that would be the first to send people around the moon in more than 50 years.
The first crewed mission around the moon in more than 50 years is coming up. Here’s how to see it at sites in and around the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
The Space Launch System and Orion capsule were transported to the launchpad before an astronaut mission that could launch as soon as Feb. 6.
Two American astronauts and others from Japan and Russia landed in the Pacific Ocean after an early journey home from the International Space Station because one of them was ill.
The members of Crew-11 — two American, one Russian and one Japanese — splashed down after one became ill, prompting an early return.
Four astronauts departed from the I.S.S. about a month earlier than scheduled because a crew member, who was not identified, has an undisclosed medical issue.
Astronomers announced the discovery of a starless cloud of hydrogen gas, a pristine relic of the cosmos that is almost as old as time itself.
Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos.