article_id: nyt_172
url: https://www.nytimes.com/section/science/space?page=6
title: Space and Astronomy
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Hardy bacteria in a lab survived pressures comparable to an asteroid strike on the red planet, suggesting a hypothetical scenario in which our planet was seeded with life.
By Robin George Andrews
A “back to basics” approach resembles the Apollo program of the 1960s, with more missions launching more often. NASA officials said that it would be safer and faster.
Elon Musk wants to launch a million satellites, but researchers say global warming is changing the upper atmosphere in ways that makes space junk linger.
By Sachi Kitajima Mulkey
The nation’s northern region has led the scientific quest to understand the aurora borealis. This summer, a 10,000-antenna radar is expected to begin the next phase of exploration.
By Alexa Robles-Gil and Michal Siarek
Trump Says He Will Release Files on Aliens and U.F.O.s
President Trump had lashed out at former President Barack Obama earlier Thursday for telling a podcaster that aliens were real.
This Comet Stopped Spinning. Then It Started Rotating Backward.
The unusual event, never seen before, might be a way small comets are “blown to bits” in the solar system.
By Jonathan O’Callaghan
Lost Soviet Moon Lander May Have Been Found
Two research teams have identified possible landing sites for Luna 9, the first human-made object to safely reach the lunar surface. “One of them is wrong,” an expert said.
Musk’s Starlink Blocks Russian Troops’ Internet Access at Ukraine’s Request
It’s unclear what effect the change will have on Russia’s ability to wage war, but Russian military bloggers said troops were experiencing internet outages that hampered frontline communications.
By Paul Sonne and Maria Varenikova
Jeff Bezos’ Rocket Company Pauses Space Tourism to Focus on the Moon
The New Shepard rocket from Blue Origin, which brought 92 people on trips to the edge of space, will cease flying for at least two years as the company prioritizes NASA contracts.
Sonic Booms and Seismic Waves Can Reveal Where Space Junk Crash-Lands
The sensors used to listen for earthquakes could help protect people from the hazards created by falling spacecraft.
By Robin George Andrews
Google’s Former C.E.O. Wants to Build a Cosmic Search Engine
Eric and Wendy Schmidt are backing a start-up-like approach to building a giant space telescope and powerful ground observatories.
John Noble Wilford, Times Reporter Who Covered the Moon Landing, Dies at 92
He gave readers a comprehensive and lyrical account of the historic mission in 1969. His science coverage as a Pulitzer-winning journalist and an author took him around the world.
By Robert D. McFadden
Almost Everything About NASA’s Latest Mission to Mars Is Unusual
The ESCAPADE mission, which launched to space on a Blue Origin rocket on Thursday, breaks the mold of how planetary science missions typically come together.
An Army of Robot Telescopes in Texas Makes the Stars Feel Closer Than Ever
Starfront Observatories allows amateur astronomers to rent a spot for their telescopes and photograph the cosmos over a high-speed data connection.
This Powerful Telescope Quickly Found 2,100 New Asteroids
The Vera C. Rubin Observatory is expected to find millions of unknown objects in our solar system, and perhaps even a mysterious Planet Nine.
Vera Rubin Scientists Reveal Telescope’s First Images
Scenes of nebulas in the Milky Way, a cluster of galaxies and thousands of new asteroids are a teaser of how the U.S.-funded observatory on a mountain in Chile will transform astronomy.
By Kenneth Chang and Katrina Miller
Vera Rubin’s Legacy Lives On in a Troubled Scientific Landscape
A powerful new telescope will usher in a new era of cosmic discovery, but in a political climate vastly different from when it was named for a once overlooked female astronomer.
How Astronomers Will Deal With 60 Million Billion Bytes of Imagery
The Vera C. Rubin Observatory will make the study of stars and galaxies more like the big data-sorting exercises of contemporary genetics and particle physics.
By Kenneth Chang and Irena Hwang
Earth’s Largest Camera Takes 3 Billion-Pixel Images of the Night Sky
At the heart of the new Vera C. Rubin Observatory is a digital camera that will create an unparalleled map of the cosmos.
By Jonathan Corum Kenneth Chang and Marcos Zegers
Happy Birthday, LIGO. Now Drop Dead.
Ten years ago, astronomers made an epic discovery with the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory. Cosmology hasn’t been the same since, and it might not stay that way much longer.
Scientific Discoveries, and Dreams, in the Balance
Research breakthroughs are often sagas of passion, curiosity and sacrifice. If Trump’s proposed budget cuts for 2026 are enacted, many such journeys may never get started.
A Century of Human Detritus, Visualized
“Technostuff” built in the last 100 years outweighs all the living matter on Earth.
A Solstice of the Soul
For his next trick, your cosmic correspondent for the past quarter-century will (try to) retire.
First Close-Up of Star Outside Our Galaxy Shows a Giant About to Blow
Astronomers zoomed in on a stellar behemoth in the Larger Magellanic Cloud, a galaxy that orbits about 160,000 light-years from the Milky Way.
Earth’s shadow temporarily draped the moon in a copper hue before sunrise on Tuesday.
NASA completed a rehearsal to launch the Artemis II rocket on Thursday. The mission would send astronauts around the Moon’s orbit for the first time in more than 50 years.
The musical, called “Galileo,” will star Raúl Esparza, and is scheduled to open in December at the Shubert Theater.
The agency did not complete a practice countdown for a flight that would be the first to send people around the moon in more than 50 years.
The first crewed mission around the moon in more than 50 years is coming up. Here’s how to see it at sites in and around the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.
The Space Launch System and Orion capsule were transported to the launchpad before an astronaut mission that could launch as soon as Feb. 6.
Two American astronauts and others from Japan and Russia landed in the Pacific Ocean after an early journey home from the International Space Station because one of them was ill.
The members of Crew-11 — two American, one Russian and one Japanese — splashed down after one became ill, prompting an early return.
Four astronauts departed from the I.S.S. about a month earlier than scheduled because a crew member, who was not identified, has an undisclosed medical issue.
Astronomers announced the discovery of a starless cloud of hydrogen gas, a pristine relic of the cosmos that is almost as old as time itself.
After canceling a spacewalk planned for Thursday, the space agency’s administrator said it was erring on the side of caution and bringing a crew of four home in the coming days.
By Kenneth Chang and Amanda Holpuch
Some tech leaders are concerned that the artificial intelligence race will exhaust available land and energy. The solution might lie in orbit.
By Eli Tan and Ryan Mac
In 2026, there will be journeys to the moon and Mars, new visions of the cosmos and a solar eclipse that might be worth traveling for.
By Katrina Miller and Michael Roston
Brian Cox once toured as a keyboardist in major rock and pop bands. Now he’s a particle physicist on a new world tour with a dazzling show he designed in an era of science disinformation and denial.
In exchange for the land in Texas, the rocket and satellite company would give the government some of its own property nearby, documents show.
A paraplegic engineer was part of a crew that made a suborbital journey on a spacecraft operated by Jeff Bezos’ private company, Blue Origin.
A paraplegic engineer from Germany became the first wheelchair user to rocket into space. The small craft that blasted her to the edge of space was operated by Jeff Bezos’ company Blue Origin.
The Ursids this weekend are a winter solstice light show.
An unusual object orbiting a rapidly spinning star might be a new phenomenon in the universe.
By Jonathan O’Callaghan
Jared Isaacman, the billionaire nominated twice to lead the agency, may draw some lessons from the tenure of another NASA leader in the 1990s.
A sale of insider shares at $421 a share would make Mr. Musk’s rocket company the most valuable private company in the world, as it readies for a possible initial public offering next year.
The moon will be about one-third full as one of the year’s last meteor showers becomes most visible.
The president withdrew Jared Isaacman’s nomination to lead the space agency in June, but senators of both parties appeared willing to give him a second shot at confirmation.
The ability of Russia to launch astronauts to the International Space Station remains in limbo after an incident last week at the Baikonur base in Kazakhstan.
The Perseverance rover picked up audio evidence of electric discharges in the red planet’s atmosphere.
Industrialization in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula has some residents pushing for protection of the region’s celestial splendor.
By Katrina Miller and Emily Elconin
During the weekend, the orbits of Earth and Saturn will combine to create an interplanetary optical illusion for anyone with a good telescope and clear skies.
New research suggests that Theia, the object whose collision with Earth is theorized to have caused the formation of the moon, came from closer to the sun.
By Robin George Andrews
With the government reopened, the space agency at last released pictures captured by a fleet of government spacecraft of an object that came from beyond our solar system.
The moon is far from full this weekend, which could mean good fireball viewing for night sky watchers.
The lower half of the New Glenn rocket set down on a platform in the Atlantic Ocean after lifting a small NASA Mars mission to space.
At least one space launch has been put on hold, as satellite operators and rocket companies manage the effects of the current geomagnetic storm hitting Earth.
A geomagnetic storm made the aurora borealis visible across a swath of the United States again on Wednesday, illuminating the skies as far south as Arizona.
By Nazaneen Ghaffar and Amy Graff
Astronomers identified more than 3,000 stars associated with the cluster, and there might be even more.
After a colorful display overnight, the northern U.S., parts of Canada and Britain could see the aurora Wednesday night.
The second flight of the orbital rocket from Jeff Bezos’s space company was halted by weather. The company may try again on Wednesday.
Scientists who study comets are struggling to keep up with popular speculation that the interstellar object 3I/ATLAS was sent to our solar system by an alien intelligence.
A Japanese astronomer captured a pair of objects slamming into the lunar surface in recent days.
By Robin George Andrews
The country’s space authorities said they were investigating whether an object had hit a Chinese spacecraft and the risks tied to it.
By Alexandra Stevenson and Selam Gebrekidan
The nomination of the billionaire entrepreneur, private astronaut and Elon Musk ally was before the floor of the Senate when the president abruptly withdrew it in June.
As NASA worries that China will win the next moon race, Elon Musk and his company tangled with critics.
NASA’s chief, Sean Duffy, set the record straight after Kim Kardashian repeated the conspiracy theory that the 1969 moon landing had been faked.
The pictures taken by the Apollo astronauts are astonishing — not only as scientific records, but also as works of art. Our critic Jason Farago shows you why.
The billionaire’s swipes at Sean Duffy are the latest example of his tangling with members of the Trump administration.
Cards Against Humanity, a popular party game, had accused Elon Musk’s company of squatting on land that it owns near the southern border in Texas.
Blue Origin, owned by Jeff Bezos, and Lockheed Martin are among the contractors that may compete with Elon Musk’s company in the race back to the lunar surface.
The shower is produced by Halley’s comet’s debris, and could offer strong viewing opportunities because the moon is new this week.
He led a team of scientists who helped confirm that a Big Bang was the source of the universe. The discovery earned him a Nobel Prize.
Fans of the red planet joined scientists at an annual conference sponsored by the Mars Society. One attendee said he would take a “one-way ticket.”
By Alex Vadukul and Jamie Lee Taete
3I/ATLAS, only the third object from beyond our solar system ever spotted from Earth, was viewed from Mars by an orbiting European spacecraft.
The writer Tristan Gooley describes how a pair of familiar constellations can help a person navigate in darkness when other methods fail.
The comets A6 (Lemmon) and R2 (SWAN) are visitors from the chilly fringes of our solar system, and could even be visible at the same time.
The detection of the molecule phosphine in a brown dwarf’s atmosphere may help astronomers in their search for life elsewhere in the Milky Way.
In a preview of their flight, the crew of Artemis II, three Americans and a Canadian, struck a tone that veered away from the political currents of the moment.
Two of the spacecraft are for NASA and one is for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
A NASA mission, IMAP, and two more spacecraft that will study space weather are traveling through space atop a single SpaceX rocket.
NASA announced 10 new candidates to begin training as astronauts as part of a plan to send more astronauts to new space stations, the moon and maybe Mars.
The 10 astronaut candidates, six of them women, will begin two years of training before becoming eligible for missions to low-Earth orbit and perhaps one day to the moon and Mars.
The United States and China are in a new space race to the moon. Eric Lipton, an investigative reporter for The New York Times, explains why the U.S. could lose this race.
By Eric Lipton, Melanie Bencosme, Stephanie Swart, David Seekamp and Zach Wood
The company’s Starship rocket, which has suffered a series of recent test explosions, is still years away from being ready for the mission, former NASA executives say.
Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos.