article_id: nyt_175
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/katrina-miller?page=9
title: Katrina Miller
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I cover the physical sciences — mostly the cosmos, space exploration and physics. I have a keen interest in stories at the intersection of science and society.
I joined The Times as part of the 2023-24 Newsroom Fellowship , a program for early career journalists, after earning a Ph.D. in physics from the University of Chicago. In school, I studied how subatomic particles called neutrinos interact with matter, knowledge that may some day reveal why we have a universe. I graduated with a B.S. in physics from Duke University in 2016.
My scientific training has prepared me for a career as a reporter. Physics and journalism have crucial similarities: I observe and investigate, then report on what I find — regardless of my initial hypothesis. As a Times journalist, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook .
Email: katrina.miller@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
Earth’s shadow temporarily draped the moon in a copper hue before sunrise on Tuesday.
Michael Silevitch leads a research center dedicated to protecting busy public spaces. Last April, he was instructed to “end all work” immediately.
Joseph Yracheta was in charge of a repository that compiled and protected tribal health data. Then its funding was cut.
He accidentally created some of the first quantum dots, tiny semiconductors that now power many electronics.
Astronomers announced the discovery of a starless cloud of hydrogen gas, a pristine relic of the cosmos that is almost as old as time itself.
In 2026, there will be journeys to the moon and Mars, new visions of the cosmos and a solar eclipse that might be worth traveling for.
By Katrina Miller and Michael Roston
The Ursids this weekend are a winter solstice light show.
The moon will be about one-third full as one of the year’s last meteor showers becomes most visible.
Yuri Ralchenko led one of the oldest teams at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The fate of some experiments hangs in the air.
A space reporter traveled to Upper Michigan, where she rediscovered a sense of cosmic wonder.
Industrialization in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula has some residents pushing for protection of the region’s celestial splendor.
By Katrina Miller and Emily Elconin
The moon is far from full this weekend, which could mean good fireball viewing for night sky watchers.
At least one space launch has been put on hold, as satellite operators and rocket companies manage the effects of the current geomagnetic storm hitting Earth.
Astronomers identified more than 3,000 stars associated with the cluster, and there might be even more.
Using a new computer model, scientists simulated the stripes, spots and hexagons on a species of boxfish, imperfections and all.
The shower is produced by Halley’s comet’s debris, and could offer strong viewing opportunities because the moon is new this week.
He led a team of scientists who helped confirm that a Big Bang was the source of the universe. The discovery earned him a Nobel Prize.
The scientific Nobels announced this week — in Physiology or Medicine, Physics and Chemistry — honored achievements rooted in fundamental research from decades ago.
Mason Peck, an aerospace engineer at Cornell, was trying to test innovative designs in spacecraft when a stop-work order hit.
John Clarke, Michel H. Devoret and John M. Martinis were recognized for work that made behaviors of the subatomic realm observable at a larger scale.
By Katrina Miller and Ali Watkins
Nobels are awarded in only three scientific categories, but other awards honor researchers across different fields.
The detection of the molecule phosphine in a brown dwarf’s atmosphere may help astronomers in their search for life elsewhere in the Milky Way.
A virtual tour of the architecture in a city where mathematics and exploration meet.
Text by Katrina Miller
The ruling is a preliminary injunction in a lawsuit over the Trump administration’s termination of hundreds of millions of research grants to the California university.
People in the Eastern Hemisphere may see Earth’s shadow pass over the lunar surface, covering our world’s natural satellite in a flush of red.
Using data from NASA’s retired InSight lander, two separate teams of researchers found evidence of a sluggish Martian mantle and a solid inner core.
In her latest book, Eugenia Cheng, a mathematician, explores the choices we make to determine if two things — numbers, shapes, words and even people — are equal.
Two of the objects in the arrangement are cold brown dwarfs, which will serve as a benchmark for others throughout the Milky Way.
The 29th moon found to be orbiting the solar system’s 7th planet is about six miles wide.
The summer’s most active shower, the Perseids, is reaching its peak Tuesday night into Wednesday morning
Astronomers found strong evidence that a gassy Jupiter-size world is orbiting one of three stars in the stellar system closest to our own.
A group of 16 states sued after the National Science Foundation terminated hundreds of millions of dollars in funding that had previously been awarded to research institutions.
By Benjamin Weiser, Katrina Miller and Zach Montague
Overcoming discrimination in a mostly male preserve, she did groundbreaking work that showed experimentalist physicists where and how to look for new particles.
The quake in Russia on Wednesday was among the strongest ever recorded — but in many places, the resulting wave was small.
The Southern Delta Aquarids and Alpha Capricornids are not the best showers of the summer, but they reach their peak on the same night.
The parasitic Tropilaelaps mite, which threatens honeybees and the food supply, isn’t in North America. Yet.
By Katrina Miller and Emily Anthes
The Best Illusion of the Year contest offers researchers, and participants, an opportunity to explore the gaps and limits of human perception.
Scenes of nebulas in the Milky Way, a cluster of galaxies and thousands of new asteroids are a teaser of how the U.S.-funded observatory on a mountain in Chile will transform astronomy.
By Kenneth Chang and Katrina Miller
A powerful new telescope will usher in a new era of cosmic discovery, but in a political climate vastly different from when it was named for a once overlooked female astronomer.
As the Vera C. Rubin Observatory surveys the night sky, astrophysicists expect to unlock the secrets of dark matter, dark energy and cosmic phenomena that go “bang!”
By Katrina Miller and Marcos Zegers
A picture taken recently by a Japanese company’s spacecraft shows how your interpretation of objective reality can be tested by the power of illusion.
The deviant behavior of a subatomic particle might point to undiscovered forms of matter and energy in the universe. Or it might not.
It’s your last chance this year to catch New York City’s best sunset, if the weather cooperates.
More than half of the National Science Foundation grants terminated since April fund programs that would help students train in science, engineering and math.
The Eta Aquarids will reach their peak Monday night into Tuesday morning.
One expert said the consequences would be “catastrophic” if Congress enacts the White House agenda of sweeping budget cuts.
By William J. Broad, Kenneth Chang, Katrina Miller and Carl Zimmer
The cloud, named Eos, is chock-full of molecular hydrogen and possibly rife with star-forming potential in the future.
Scientists used fluid dynamics to learn how to get the most flavor from pour-over coffee.
The agency targeted grants focused on diversity, equity and inclusion, as well as research on misinformation.
By Katrina Miller and Carl Zimmer
Active since last week, the shower is formed from a comet’s debris and is forecast to produce the most fireballs overnight.
Jonathan McDowell is retiring from studying the universe. But he’s ramping up efforts to chronicle humanity’s exploration of space.
A new estimate of the ghostly particle’s maximum possible mass brings physicists a tad closer to understanding the universe.
Using samples gathered from the Chang’e-6 mission, scientists found that the interior of the moon on the half we never see from Earth might be drier than the near side.
If you’re on the East Coast, wake up early to try and catch the moon take a bite out of the sun on Saturday.
After more than a decade of mapping the stars, the European spacecraft was shut down on Thursday. But its legacy lives on.
New data further challenge the best scientific theory of the history and the structure of the universe. But a separate recent result reinforces it.
By Katrina Miller and Dennis Overbye
The first total lunar eclipse in more than two years lit up the sky last night as humanity, forever fascinated with the Earth’s only natural satellite, watched.
Earth’s shadow will block most of the light that illuminates the lunar surface, creating what is known as a blood moon.
The SPHEREx telescope will create the most colorful map of the cosmos, while the four satellites of the PUNCH mission track the evolution of the solar wind in three dimensions.
The postponement, driven primarily by thick clouds, was the second scrub of the flight since an issue with the rocket on Saturday night.
The spacecraft, SPHEREx and PUNCH, had been expected to launch on a SpaceX rocket on Saturday.
Thousands of protesters gathered in Washington for Stand Up for Science, a rally in response to President Trump’s federal-funding and job cuts.
Federal agencies have issued guidance to employees on hundreds of terms to limit or avoid using. An analysis of government websites shows many of the same words being removed.
By Karen Yourish, Annie Daniel, Saurabh Datar, Isaac White and Lazaro Gamio
Stand Up for Science aims to revive a movement that started in 2017, but with an all-new team and a more focused vision.
The odds that the space rock, 2024 YR4, will smash into our planet in 2032 have dropped to nearly zero, leading astronomers to conclude that we are no longer in danger.
With Mercury joining the show, all seven of Earth’s celestial neighbors will be present at dusk this week.
Confusion has ensued about the future of programs and research supporting people with disabilities as a result of President Trump’s executive order.
It’s the most energetic particle of its kind ever discovered, and scientists have no idea where it came from.
President Trump’s executive order is altering scientific exploration across a broad swath of fields, even beyond government agencies, researchers say.
By Katrina Miller and Roni Caryn Rabin
Alexandra Bell is bringing more than a decade of experience in nuclear policy to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, the organization that sets the Doomsday Clock.
Marcus Chown’s “A Crack in Everything” is a journey through space and time with the people studying one of the most enigmatic objects in the universe.
On Monday night you may have a chance to witness the moon obscuring the Red Planet at its brightest, as well as a comet’s closest approach to the sun.
No one was hurt by the object, believed to be part of a launch rocket. Experts say the frequency of such incidents is increasing as the amount of debris in orbit around the Earth grows dramatically.
The Quadrantids might be one of the strongest showers this year, but poor weather could make them difficult to see.
This was featured in live coverage.
Here are some key events to look forward to in space and astronomy in the year ahead.
By Michael Roston and Katrina Miller
The probe sent a signal to Earth indicating that it had survived the closest solar encounter ever attempted by a spacecraft.
Experts said they were “blind” to the Indian Ocean tsunami in 2004. Twenty years later, working toward a world without tsunami deaths is a challenge.