article_id: nyt_176
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/natalie-proulx
title: Natalie Proulx
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
My beat is The New York Times. I look for the most engaging and educational pieces The Times has to offer and turn them into useful resources for the classroom. I’ve written lesson plans on a wide range of subjects, including women’s suffrage , photography , climate change , virtual reality , close reading and much more.
I also contribute to our daily writing prompts, help run our many student contests and round up our favorite student comments each week in our Current Events Conversation .
Finally, I regularly work with educators to publish their ideas for teaching with The Times. Have something to share? Pitch it here .
Before joining The Learning Network in 2017, I taught English language arts in Denver Public Schools and created curriculum and assessments for a variety of disciplines, including language arts and social studies.
I grew up in Colorado, and attended the University of Colorado and Columbia University, where I earned a master’s of education in curriculum and teaching.
I consider it a privilege to help teachers bring the high-quality journalism found in The Times into their classrooms in creative and effective ways. Like all journalists in the Times newsroom, I am committed to upholding the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook .
Have feedback for The Learning Network or want to share an idea for teaching with The Times? Email us.
Email: LNFeedback@nytimes.com
We invite you to explore a neighborhood in your community and imagine possibilities for transformation.
Asian cultures around the world are celebrating the Lunar New Year with a variety of rituals. How does tradition help you feel connected to your roots?
The Milan-Cortina Games have ended. Did you watch? If so, which events, athletes and performances will stick with you?
Would you want to live alone in the woods, as the author Henry David Thoreau did when he wrote “Walden”? What does escape look like to you?
By Shannon Doyne and Natalie Proulx
The president last week erased the scientific finding that climate change endangers human health and the environment. What does that mean for you?
Some people are spending Valentine’s Day honoring love in all its forms, not just romance. What meaningful relationships might you like to celebrate this year?
A series of landmark trials will put this question to the test.
Students in New Jersey will soon be required to learn cursive. Do you think it’s an important skill to have, or is it a relic of the past?
Federal agents fatally shot a second U.S. citizen on Saturday during protests of President Trump’s immigration crackdown, prompting many Americans to reflect on the state of the country. Teenagers, what do you think?
A gigantic winter storm dumped more than a foot of snow in 20 states this weekend. Are you enjoying the winter weather?