article_id: nyt_178
url: https://cooking.nytimes.com/article/mardi-gras-recipes
title: 21 Ways to Cook Up a Delicious Mardi Gras
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
King cake, fried chicken and more recipes to celebrate Carnival season.
By Sara Bonisteel and Margaux Laskey
Published Feb. 24, 2022 Updated Feb. 13, 2026
Mardi Gras is on Feb. 17, and as some New Orleanians are fond of saying, “Everywhere else, it’s just Tuesday.”
But that doesn’t have to be the case. Do you air drum in the driver’s seat? Do you wear sequins and glitter on weekdays? Have you been accused of being “extra” on more than one occasion? Carnival is probably for you.
As connoisseurs and know-it-alls will tell you, the first American Mardi Gras did not take place in New Orleans. (Mobile, Ala., claims that honor.) But it was New Orleans that spread its reputation and the holiday, of course, requires food that can move, as there are parades to see and royalty to greet as you make your way through the revelry.
Here are 21 recipes (and a few more, for lagniappe) to celebrate Mardi Gras, whether you’ll be in the Crescent City or ending a long day of meetings.
Carnival is a marathon, not a sprint. Spiced and filling red beans and rice — the traditional Monday dish in New Orleans — fit the bill for a bit of pregaming on Lundi Gras, the day before Mardi Gras. This recipe, from the journalist Pableaux Johnson , who died last year, has been perfected over years of Monday gatherings at his grandmother’s kitchen table, with spicy andouille sausage and a smattering of herbs used to great effect. If you’d prefer something even more hands off (and vegan), turn to Sarah DiGregorio’s pressure cooker red beans and rice.
Recipes: Red Beans and Rice | Vegan Pressure Cooker Red Beans and Rice
Hot, golden and covered in confectioners’ sugar, beignets are the best way to start the day and to end an evening. Cafe du Monde in the French Quarter is known for piling drifts of sugar on top of its beignets, while its rival Morning Call leaves it to customers to decide how much sugar to add. This recipe from Kay Chun leaves it to the cook to decide how to dust it. This batch serves a crowd and is made in a Dutch oven, no deep fryer required.
The neutral ground, or median, on St. Charles Avenue on Mardi Gras morning smells like Popeyes. Fried chicken is portable and easy to eat with one hand while you raise another to reach for beads tossed from passing floats. Try Melissa Clark’s make-ahead fried chicken, double-dredged in flour for a supremely crunchy crust. If you’d rather not fry on a weeknight, bake a batch of Lindy Boggs’s chicken . The congresswoman served this dish at an annual garden party in New Orleans for many years.
Recipes: Make-Ahead Fried Chicken | Lindy Boggs’s Oven-Baked Chicken
The New Orleans chef Paul Prudhomme brought this recipe to The New York Times in 1983, and it’s been a reader favorite ever since. The recipe calls for cooking the chicken from scratch, but it works quite well with rotisserie chicken or leftover roast chicken. Just add it in Step 10. And if andouille is too spicy for you, kielbasa is a perfectly wonderful substitute.
Recipe: Chicken and Sausage Gumbo
King cake with traditional cinnamon sugar filling is certainly lovely, but since Mardi Gras is about going over the top, may we suggest Vallery Lomas’s strawberry and cream cheese version? To keep it from veering too sweet, the cream-cheese filling is flavored with lemon zest, and the whole thing gets blanketed with a sweet-tart lemon icing.
Recipe: King Cake With Strawberry and Cream Cheese Filling
Calas are tender rice fritters that are believed to have been introduced to Louisiana by enslaved people, in the 18th century, from rice-growing regions of Africa. Once sold by vendors on the streets of New Orleans, they are now typically served in restaurants and home kitchens. In this riff from JJ Johnson, a bit of Creole seasoning livens things up.
Recipe: Calas (Sweet Rice Fritters)
Not to be confused with the delicate French broth of the same name, court-bouillon is a hearty seafood stew that begins — as many New Orleans dishes do — with the Creole trinity (bell pepper, onion, celery). Crushed tomatoes, stock, plenty of dried herbs and redfish are added. This version, from Vallery Lomas, calls for tilapia or cod and is bolstered by the addition of mushrooms.
Recipes: Court-Bouillon (Louisiana Seafood Stew)
Sometimes simple is best, as is the case with a shrimp po’ boy: just crispy fried shrimp tucked into French bread. If you want to gussy it up, you can make it “dressed,” which means with lettuce, tomato, pickle and mayonnaise. Vallery Lomas suggests looking for Louisiana-style French bread — it’s softer — for her version of the popular sandwich, but any crisp, not hard, loaf will do.
Recipe: Shrimp Po’ Boy
Like a cross between an oyster gumbo and an oyster bisque, this cozy soup is thickened with flour and enriched with milk and cream. Vallery Lomas calls for blending a pound of oysters into the store-bought stock, so that it’s extra briny and flavorful.
Typically eaten on Fat Tuesday in Poland, paczki (pronounced ponch-key) are Polish doughnuts filled with plum or rose jam and dusted with powdered sugar or drizzled with glaze. Spirytus, a high-proof alcohol, is used in the dough to prevent the doughnuts from absorbing too much oil, but Naz Deravian notes that vodka also works well.
Recipe: Paczki (Jam-Filled Doughnuts )
Jerrelle Guy’s spicy baked Creole pasta was inspired by a similar dish her Auntie Nae used to make. The cayenne, Creole seasoning and black pepper are tempered by the generous amounts of cream cheese, Cheddar and whole milk. Feel free to add cubed cooked chicken, sliced mushrooms or halved grape tomatoes.
Recipe: Baked Creole Tetrazzini
The beauty of a jambalaya is its ability to take on whatever you toss in as you clean out your refrigerator: sausage, ham, chicken, shrimp, mushrooms, oysters — you name it. Bring a bit of sparkle to a Tuesday night with this jambalaya from Vallery Lomas, which you can easily make vegan.
Recipe: Quick Jambalaya
In New Orleans, there is a healthy appreciation for gumbos of all kinds: duck and andouille , green , vegetarian . This Creole gumbo from the chef Leah Chase , adapted by Matt Lee and Ted Lee, is brimful of seafood, beef, pork and chicken, which creates a “brackish and silky and delicious” broth unlike any other.
While Bourbon Street flows with hurricanes and hand grenades year-round, cocktail lovers turn to some of the city’s older creations, like the Sazerac. Its blend of rye and bitters is balanced with lemon, sugar and absinthe or Herbsaint , depending on who mixes your drink. No one will bat an eye on Mardi Gras if you pour yours in a to-go cup .
Inspired by a popular appetizer at Mosca’s, an Italian restaurant just outside New Orleans, Vallery Lomas’s simple gratin features fresh oysters in a garlic-butter sauce, topped with breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan, then baked. Using preshucked oysters packed in their liquor from your local grocer or fish market makes this dish as simple as can be.
Recipe: Oysters Mosca
This Italian sandwich, full of cured meats and made famous by the Central Grocery , only gets better as it rests at room temperature. Maybe that is why it’s so beloved. Just be sure to double-wrap the sandwich in paper if you are taking it to a gathering, as the oil from the tangy olive salad is going to leak through the sesame bread no matter what.
Roux, Creole seasoning and the “holy trinity” of Creole cooking (onion, celery, bell pepper), give this vegetarian stew from Vallery Lomas plenty of Louisiana flavor. An optional dash of liquid smoke adds the smokiness it would otherwise get from smoked meats and seafood. To prevent gooey okra, it’s roasted in the oven before being added to the pot.
Recipe: Vegetarian Gumbo
This recipe from Brennan’s restaurant in New Orleans has been wowing Times readers since it was first published in 1957. It doesn’t hurt that there are pyrotechnic feats involved. The cook flambés the buttery bananas, drenching them in a bit of banana liqueur and rum before setting them aflame.
Recipe: Bananas Foster
Up there with Roman stick candy , candy apples are another treat to look forward to along the parade routes. Erin Jeanne McDowell’s recipe skips the fire-engine-red dye of commercial apples and delivers nostalgia and flavor with a satisfying cinnamon- and vanilla-candy coating.
King cake season can be short or long depending on when Mardi Gras falls on the calendar, but Fat Tuesday is the end of the season, which means you have less than a week to eat your fill. In this recipe, adapted by Kayla Stewart, the chef Dominick Lee caramelizes apples for the cake, which he covers with a cream-cheese frosting flavored with orange-blossom water. (Substitute almond extract for the orange blossom for a less floral frosting.) Making a king cake is a fun family project, and you can find the plastic babies in the baby-shower section of your local party-supply store. Note: The trinket is hidden in the cake after it’s baked.
Recipes: Caramelized Apple King Cake
Drinking a strong, slushy, boozy drink on the neutral ground is a hallmark of Carnival revelry in New Orleans. This buzzy pick-me-up keeps the party moving, and it’s inspired by the one served year-round at Molly’s at the Market in the French Quarter. If you’d rather just grab a high-octane coffee, you can’t go wrong with this recipe for cold brew . Use coffee with chicory for even more New Orleans flavor.
Recipes: Frozen Irish Coffee | New Orleans Cold Drip Coffee
Carnival is as much about the music as it is the pageantry. Here is a playlist to listen to as you cook up your own celebration.
[ Save these recipes and find more Mardi Gras recipe inspiration .]
Follow NYT Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube and Pinterest . Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Get recipes, tips and NYT special offers delivered straight to your inbox.
Opt out or contact us anytime. See our Privacy Policy .
New York Times Cooking offers subscribers recipes, advice and inspiration for better everyday cooking. From easy weeknight dinners to holiday meals, our recipes have been tested and perfected to meet the needs of home cooks of all levels. Subscribe now for full access.