article_id: nyt_179
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/jason-farago?page=9
title: Jason Farago
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
As a critic at large, I try to make sense of culture within broader currents of politics, economics, technology and the environment. That work has taken me from wartime Kyiv to the Olympic stadiums of Tokyo to dance parties in Johannesburg. I also am the co-creator of Close Read , a criticism series that delves into a single cultural work, detail by detail.
I began writing for The Times in 2015, reviewing exhibitions and reporting features across the United States and in more than a dozen foreign countries. Previously I wrote for The Guardian, and I was a regular contributor to The New Yorker, the BBC, NPR, the New York Review of Books and Artforum. I edited a global culture magazine called Even, whose four-year run is collected in the anthology “Out of Practice.”
In 2017 I was named one of the inaugural laureates of the Rabkin Prize for arts writing. In 2022 I was awarded one of the inaugural Silvers-Dudley Prizes for criticism and journalism. And in 2023 I was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for criticism.
I’m from New York, though my last name, for the avoidance of doubt, rhymes with “Chicago.”
Critics abide by the same rigorous ethical standards as all Times journalists to ensure our independence and credibility. (You can read more here about The Times’s ethics guidelines.) For my work, that means I don’t sit on prize juries, search committees, advisory boards, or any body involved in the fields I write about. I don’t accept remuneration from cultural institutions I might cover, and I don’t go on press trips; The Times pays for any travel I undertake. I don’t advise artists, dealers or collectors, not even informally. I don’t write for catalogs or publications published by museums or galleries, and I don’t collect art of significant value.
Instagram: @jasonfarago
Our critic Jason Farago shares what you shouldn’t miss in a city with as much culture off the silver screen as on it.
Inuuteq Storch, a young photographer from Greenland with a show at MoMA PS1, captures daily life in a place much less remote than we thought.
Jacques-Louis David, artist and politician of the French Revolution, has beguiled our critic Jason Farago for years — and scared him, too. Let him show you why.
A new exhibition revisits a turning point in the career of the 95-year-old artist: the paintings that faced down death to find meaning in life.
Aunt Gladys. Tyler, the Creator. That sex scene in “The Naked Gun.” These are the things Culture staffers couldn’t stop thinking about this year.
By The New York Times
Our critic Jason Farago shares what you shouldn’t miss in a bustling city that is best discovered at a leisurely pace.
But what was the payout? A critic survives the four-season journey to the premium art fair in Hong Kong, Basel, Paris and now Miami Beach. Here are his takeaways.
The sharp-tongued architect and professor built Manhattan’s most luxurious towers, but his new book shuttles from Billionaires’ Row to the Bronx. (Plus, what he thinks of Rem and Zaha.)
The pictures taken by the Apollo astronauts are astonishing — not only as scientific records, but also as works of art. Our critic Jason Farago shows you why.
“Monuments,” a group exhibition in Los Angeles, led by Kara Walker, places contemporary art face to face with statuary removed in the last decade.
A once-in-a-generation exhibition in Italy shows how the Renaissance painter believed something with his whole heart, and then made it manifest.
By Jason Farago and Clara Vannucci
Glenn D. Lowry led the Museum of Modern Art for longer than anyone. But the institution he reconstructed (twice) is facing all-new trials.
This fall, see Jacques-Louis David, Sheila Hicks and Gerhard Richter in Paris, Kerry James Marshall in London, Fra Angelico in Florence and more.
Eighty years after the city’s destruction, we seem to be blundering into a new age of nuclear perils. It is time for culture to rediscover “the courage to be afraid.”
Our critic Jason Farago shares what you shouldn’t miss in a city crowded with both the seamy and stately.
One of the most intelligent artists in North America finally gets the retrospective he deserves.
In the artist's breathtaking quarry pictures, his singular vision runs into the hard facts of deep time.
Our critics pick 11 outstanding exhibitions — many still on view this summer —and tour the renewed Frick Collection and the Met’s Michael C. Rockefeller Wing.
By Holland Cotter, Jason Farago, Wesley Morris and Deborah Solomon
The official photograph of the president’s second term has the gloss of his 1980s architecture, but its A.I.-like haze is pure 2025.
Our critic Jason Farago shares what you shouldn’t miss in a city imprinted with seven centuries of cultural history.
The London institution, which turns 25 this week, encouraged its peers to look beyond the West. But its greatest impact was to remake the art museum into a kind of theme park.
Caravaggio was an artist of rare directness, whose naturalistic pictures brought the heavens down to earth. Our critic Jason Farago shows you what Francis may have seen in them.
The 2,000-year-old Torlonia collection of Roman sculptures, now at the Art Institute of Chicago, has the urgency of the greatest contemporary art.
Piet Mondrian pioneered abstract painting. But he kept painting flowers — flowers that our critic Jason Farago can’t stop thinking about. What makes them so magnetic?
Anne Imhof’s three-hour spectacle of moody youth at the Armory is sweet sorrow, full of moping and muttering. Still, almost despite itself, it points to true art.
By Jason Farago and George Etheredge for The New York Times
The first major U.S. exhibition of Germany’s great Romantic painter is a historic showcase. It’s also a blueprint for how to think, and how to feel, in a changing environment.
In a MoMA retrospective filled with humorous angst, the German sculptor offers a prime 2025 resolution: Don’t run from failure.
“Severance” is finally back for its second season, three New York art museums are set to reopen and ballet goes extreme.
By James Poniewozik, Zachary Woolfe, Jon Pareles, Jason Farago, Gia Kourlas, Jesse Green, Salamishah Tillet, Mike Hale, Alissa Wilkinson, Amanda Hess, Jason Zinoman and Maya Phillips
The movie scenes, TV episodes, song lyrics and other moments that reporters, critics, editors and visual journalists in Culture couldn’t stop thinking about this year.
By The New York Times
The art critics of The Times select their favorites, from the biography of a “famously unknown” artist to an ode to the Louvre from 100 poets.
By Holland Cotter, Jason Farago and Walker Mimms
Now we fret about chatbots. An earlier age worried about automatons, the uncanny humanoid contraptions whose voices could trigger love or mania.
A shimmering dream on the Nile has inspired creativity from the Harlem Renaissance to Kara Walker to Beyoncé. But how much can you play with the past?
Exactly 150 years ago, Monet, Degas, Renoir and their pals spurred an artistic revolution. Can we still see the defiance behind the beauty, and the schmaltz?
The sprawling California festival “PST Art” promises a dialogue between “two cultures.” But painting and physics may have more in common than their practitioners know.
Who needs Brooklyn? From Ithaca to Buffalo, the art is overflowing in upstate New York.
Once, the word signified supernatural things. In the mouth of Kamala Harris’s running mate, weirdness is much more earthbound.
This was featured in live coverage.
When the athletes march in — or float in, as they will in Paris on Friday — you can enjoy the illusion that it’s a small world after all.
Misunderstood for decades, the sculptor and filmmaker is pushing ceramic to its limits. He’s dancing. He’s making the best work of his career.
In video footage, everything was pandemonium. It was still images that defined the attack and its aftermath.
Born into slavery, Guillaume Lethière became one of France’s most decorated painters. For the first time, a major exhibition gives us the full view of his scenes of love and war.
President Biden’s toughest opponent may not be his predecessor. It is the cultural meaning, built up through centuries, that we assign to being old.
An exhibition in downtown Manhattan showcases more than a dozen grass-roots efforts to rebuild war-stricken cities.
Commencement is the rare American ritual that still has rules. That’s why it’s ripe for disruption.
The immersive show features fragile dresses inside airtight vitrines, overcoats growing grass, pat-’n-sniff walls and a hologram. Does it work?
By Vanessa Friedman and Jason Farago
After a childhood marked by war and exile, Petrit Halilaj has become one of his generation’s great talents.
Every art institution now speaks of progress, justice, transformation. What if all those words hide a more old-fashioned aim?
The Venice Biennale, a historic and influential exhibition, is underway this week, showcasing works from hundreds of artists in an attempt to track the direction of where art is going. Jason Farago, a critic at large for The New York Times, disentangles the complex relationship between art and politics in a time when governments are meddling more in culture, and ultra-rich collectors have their own strong views.
By Jason Farago and Nikolay Nikolov
These highlights drew the big crowds in the early days, from a sonorous symphony made by fruit, to an underwater spectacle to a modern-day Tintoretto.
By Jason Farago, Alex Marshall, Julia Halperin, Jillian Steinhauer, Zachary Small, Casey Kelbaugh and Matteo de Mayda
Feldman, who wrote in “Unorthodox” about leaving her Hasidic community in New York, has been touching a nerve in Germany, where she is now a citizen.
The home of boundary-pushing artists from around the world has been upended by debates about what can and can’t be said about Israel and the war.
The sculptor had a breakthrough in the late 1990s with his torqued metal rings. Then the attack on the World Trade Center, which Serra witnessed, gave them a sudden new significance.
“Even Better Than the Real Thing” is as a well-intentioned edition of the perpetually debated show. Will it go down as a notable one?
By Jason Farago, Travis Diehl and Martha Schwendener
The Walker Art Center stages a rare survey of the courageous work that bloomed in the Eastern bloc, as artists struggled against state repression.
A fake Drake/Weeknd mash-up is not a threat to our species’s culture. It’s a warning: We can’t let our imaginations shrink to machine size.
In 1980s Belgium, this Jewish artist dared to blur the lines between victims and villains. A bracing retrospective is now at the Drawing Center.
The art critics of The Times select their favorites, from Botticelli to Vermeer, Lucy Lippard’s memoir, and Wade Guyton’s intelligent rereading of Manet.
By Holland Cotter, Jason Farago and Walker Mimms
After a five-year renovation, some of the museum’s grandest galleries have reopened. Our critic frames six artworks you cannot miss.
The entire team in charge of selecting the leading avant-garde exhibition’s next curator has now resigned, putting the future of the 2027 edition in question.
By Alex Marshall and Jason Farago
A real vigor emerges in this exhibition at the Neue Galerie, which focuses on the painter’s unflinching Weimar scenes.
The contemporary art show has spread beyond Ukraine’s borders and is now an eight-city European festival about war, democracy and solidarity.
Sublime and vulgar all at once, his diaphanous stains of color have come together in a once-in-a-generation show in Paris.
The images streaming onto our phones from Israel and Gaza, many coming from those fighting or caught up in the war, don’t just document the story — they shape it.
A Times critic argues that ours is the least innovative century for the arts in 500 years. That doesn’t have to be a bad thing.
His spare, icily precise books explore humanity’s most serious themes, including South Africa’s legacy of apartheid. And not all of them are downers.
“Olympia,” the brothel scene that birthed modern art, crosses the Atlantic for the first time in the Met exhibition “Manet/Degas.”
Ed Ruscha, intrepid explorer of language and image, prefigured a digital culture of words on the move. A retrospective at MoMA shines new light on his groundbreaking career: the books, the paintings, the room made of chocolate.
Want to see new art in New York this weekend? Check out diagrammatic paintings in Chelsea or Catharine Czudej’s fun house on the Upper East Side. And don’t miss Lap-See Lam’s first U.S. solo show on the East Village.
By Holland Cotter, Jason Farago, Jillian Steinhauer, John Vincler, Martha Schwendener, Travis Diehl, Seph Rodney and Will Heinrich
A travelogue in verse, rich with Sonia Delaunay’s art pyrotechnics, is the centerpiece of one of the most eye-opening shows of the summer.
While the Ukrainian city was under siege by Russian forces, a team of journalists recorded the brutal war, resulting in this essential documentary.
Full of experiments with new media, the museum’s giant exhibition displays the powers and the pitfalls of seeing the world through a screen.
The MFA Boston shows how one of the greatest printmakers, from Edo Japan, inspired a tidal wave of followers, from Gauguin to Lichtenstein.
Want to see new art in the city? Check out Nachume Miller’s last paintings  at David Benrimon Fine Art; Jaime Muñoz’s rebelling robots at François Ghebaly; and Sylvia Palacios Whitman’s unforgettable performances at Americas Society.
By Max Lakin, Travis Diehl, Martha Schwendener, Holland Cotter, Jason Farago, Roberta Smith and Will Heinrich
The Australian comedian turns curator in a show about Picasso’s complicated legacy. But it’s women artists the exhibition really shortchanges.
This was featured in live coverage.
Burhan Sönmez, who is president of PEN International, discusses the tension between politics and art and the role of literature in authoritarian societies.
Turkey’s president has made a spectacle of the Ottoman past, using monuments and TV shows to rally his voters. His cultural opponents have faced censorship, or jail.
A jolting retrospective at the Whitney explores how climate change, emerging technologies and political deadlocks are shaping our work and life.
By Jason Farago and Emma Goldberg
At LGDR’s new gallery,   blue-chip buttocks by 60 artists, from Degas and Klimt to Cecily Brown and Andy Warhol.
What is a day, a month, a year? Science, religion and art coalesce in an invaluable 15th-century book of hours.
Juan de Pareja was immortalized in a portrait by Velázquez, his enslaver for two decades. Now he takes center stage with his art and personal history.
Faith Ringgold, Mickalene Thomas, George Condo and others talk to our critics about the visual world he helped create.
By Jason Farago, Will Heinrich, Roberta Smith and Yinka Elujoba
“Kyiv Eternal,” by the composer and sound artist Heinali (real name Oleh Shpudeiko), submerges listeners in the sounds of the prewar Ukrainian capital.
The Jewish Museum surveys one of the grandest families of the 19th century: a hemisphere-spanning dynasty of merchants, poets, soldiers and socialites (oh, and also drug lords).
Want to see new art in the city? Check out Miyoko Ito’s singular abstractions  and Martin Kippenberger’s brutal self-portraits.
By Max Lakin, Jillian Steinhauer, Travis Diehl, John Vincler, Martha Schwendener, Blake Gopnik, Will Heinrich, Dawn Chan and Jason Farago
This blockbuster at the Rijksmuseum, never to be repeated, pares the sphinx of Dutch art to the essence: 28 gemlike paintings.
“Richard Avedon: Murals” fills just one gallery of the Met, but “fills” is an understatement. These in-your-face, wall-engulfing portraits are a milestone in image-making.
Four editors and one critic share their wish lists for best picture, best actress and best actor.
By Stephanie Goodman, Mekado Murphy, Jason M. Bailey, Jason Farago and Andrew LaVallee
From our critics, reviews of closed gallery shows around New York City.
By The New York Times
This was featured in live coverage.