article_id: nyt_20
url: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2026/02/21/style/lunar-new-year-asian-american-celebrations.html
title: Lunar New Year Across America
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The Pan-Asian landscape is rich with tradition. In Honolulu , Los Angeles , Minneapolis , New Orleans and New York , communities blend old and new customs to make the holiday their own.
By Chevaz Clarke , Miya Lee and Emily Wolfe
The team traveled to five cities in a whirlwind tour, working with local videographers to capture each community’s unique celebrations.
With Tuesday’s arrival of the new moon, Asian Americans gathered to celebrate the Lunar New Year, a holiday that lasts several days to weeks, depending on the culture, and generally culminates on the full moon, which this year lands on March 3.
Celebrated by more than a billion people, it is one of the most important holidays throughout East Asia, Southeast Asia and their diasporas. Although traditions and lunisolar calendars vary, the festivities share commonalities, such as preparing elaborate meals and performing rituals to call in good luck and honor ancestors.
In an effort to understand how different Asian American groups observe the new year, reporters visited five communities in the United States: Korean American adoptees in Minneapolis , a pan-Asian Mardi Gras krewe in New Orleans , a musical Mongolian American family in Los Angeles , a multigenerational Chinese American home in Honolulu and a Tibetan American artist at his studio in Queens .
As the transformative Year of the Fire Horse gallops into view, these diverse groups are releasing the bad and the bygone and ushering in spring’s hope and renewal.
With a Mardi Gras Krewe in New Orleans
Tap Bui , a member of the bedazzled Mardi Gras “Krewe of PhantAsia,” which began informally with a group of Vietnamese American friends, likes to say that her family moved from one southern delta to another.
Like many of the New Orleans metropolitan area’s roughly 18,000 people with Vietnamese ancestry, Bui’s parents fled Vietnam for the city after the fall of Saigon in 1975. Bui, 39, explained that the archbishop of New Orleans had invited refugees to resettle in the city, encouraged by the two regions’ similar climates, access to fishing industries and shared Catholic presence after French colonization.
Many Vietnamese Americans in New Orleans grew up celebrating both Tết and Mardi Gras, which often fall around the same time. However, it is rare that Fat Tuesday and the beginning of Tết directly coincide — as they did this year.
The Krewe of PhantAsia’s roughly 60 members range in age and ethnicity. There are Korean Americans, Filipino Americans, Taiwanese Americans, Japanese Americans and many who are mixed race.
Their commitment to inclusivity was evident in the pamphlet they handed out along the parade route highlighting other Asian American krewes and the contributions of various Asian groups in the area — from the Filipino sailors who settled Bayou Saint Malo in the 1760s to the Chinese who populated Bourbon Street in the 1940s.
Khai Nguyen, 39, whose father was imprisoned in a Vietnamese re-education camp for seven years before qualifying to immigrate to the United States in 1991, felt urgency and pride in perpetuating his heritage.
With Korean American Adoptees in Minneapolis
In southeast Minneapolis , a group of Korean American adoptees gathered at Arbeiter Brewing Company to celebrate Seollal. After the Korean War ended in 1953, Minnesota became home to the largest community of Korean adoptees in the United States, many of whom still live there today.
Many adoptees who did not grow up celebrating Seollal know firsthand that traditions are inherited, not inherent. To reconnect with traditions that were not passed down, many seek cultural camps, community centers and events like the all-day celebration at the brewery.
Arbeiter Brewing is co-owned by a Korean American adoptee, Kate Winkel, 47, making it one of very few Asian-owned breweries in the United States. Arbeiter was set to open the summer of 2020, but after George Floyd was killed and protests broke out just blocks from the business, it shifted its focus to offer community support, which quickly created meaningful ties to the neighborhood.
Today, it continues to be a cherished space, with culture and community integral to its foundation. Many attendees expressed the importance of gathering for the holiday, as Minneapolis grappled with the large and ongoing presence of Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
Kira Siegler , 35, and Tara Tenhoff, 51, the president and vice president of AK Connection , Minnesota’s largest and oldest nonprofit run by and for Korean adoptees, helped coordinate Arbeiter’s fifth annual Seollal celebration this year. The line-up featured local Asian American and Pacific Islander vendors as well as performances from JangmiArts and Conor Lee, a local musician.
Korean adoption in the United States peaked in the mid-1980s, and many adoptees are now having children of their own. Despite growing up without a direct connection to Korean culture, many adoptees want to teach Korean traditions to their children but are anxious that they may not know the “proper” way to do so. Through AK Connection programming, Siegler and Tenhoff hope adoptees will not only reconnect with their culture, but also gain the knowledge to confidently transfer traditions to the next generation.
With a Mongolian American Family and a Horse-Head Fiddle Player in Los Angeles
As the sun rises on the morning of Tsagaan Sar, Lkhagva Tundev — who goes by Lucky — leaves his Los Angeles home to perform rituals of gratitude and protection for his family.
Twelve years after the 1990 dissolution of Soviet rule in Mongolia, Tundev immigrated with his wife, Altmaa Dorj, and their two daughters, Nyamjargal (nicknamed Nimi) and Bayarmaa (nicknamed Bimi), to California, which is home to the country’s largest population of Mongolians. (Statewide, the population is about 10,500, about a third of whom live in Los Angeles.)
Tsagaan Sar is one of the most significant and sacred holidays in Mongolia. After harsh winters, nomadic and urban families traverse the country’s vast expanse to gather, honor ancestors and the earth, and enjoy elaborate meals, which invariably include a tower of milk curds, a full flank of mutton, fermented horse milk and 1,000 dumplings.
Dorj was born in 1966, the last time there was a year of the fire horse. To celebrate her birthday and the completion of the Mongolian zodiac’s 60-year cycle, her family invited about 22 friends and community members to formally greet one another, exchange tobacco snuff bottles, play horse-inspired games and sing traditional songs with the morin khuur , a horse-head-shaped fiddle that is Mongolia’s national instrument.
Urtnasan Gantulga, 42, a family friend and the executive director of the Morin Khuur Center in North America, joined the family for a song.
Tundev , 67 , remembered the decades when Mongolian culture was severely restricted under the Soviets, and, he said, it was verboten to even mention “Chinggis Khaan” (Genghis Khan).
In America, Nimi, 33, and Bimi, 31, have both found ways to revive Mongolian traditions by weaving them into their creative pursuits. As a filmmaker, Nimi bridges Mongolian and American industries, often traveling between the two countries to tell rarely represented stories. As a D.J., Bimi incorporates traditional Mongolian instruments and songs into techno beats.
In a Multi-Generational Chinese American Home in Honolulu
Unlike many Chinese Americans in Hawaii, whose ancestors came to work on sugar cane plantations throughout the 1800s, Cassie Louie’s family arrived in 1980 — by way of Peru.
Denise Louie left Lima for Oahu, where she later married; had her daughter, Cassie; and brought her mother, Siu Yee Kwok, to live.
More culturally Hispanic than Chinese, Denise, 67, wasn’t able to teach her daughter how to celebrate Chūnjié or cook its customary dishes. Cassie, 37, took it upon herself to learn from her 91-year-old grandmother, or “popo,” rapidly documenting recipes for sweet lotus tea and jin dui, a chewy, red-bean-filled pastry, that her popo remembered her own mother preparing on Lunar New Year.
In Peru , Cassie’s mother and grandmother did not celebrate Chūnjié, joking that their culture went “dormant.” In Hawaii, Cassie’s grandmother was able to reconnect with her heritage. She began playing mahjong, participating in Chinese associations and walking in Lunar New Year parades.
Cassie remembers her Popo taking her to Honolulu’s Chinatown as a child to gather New Year supplies: blooming plum branches, mandarin oranges and red envelopes. A month before, she’d begin deep-cleaning their house to welcome the year with a fresh start .
In order to further connect with her popo, Cassie learned how to play mahjong and even started “Bad Luck Club,” a popular monthly mahjong gathering at Native Books at Arts & Letters in Honolulu’s Chinatown.
With a Tibetan American Artist in Queens
Palden Weinreb , 42, whose mother is Tibetan and father is Jewish, is a multimedia artist with a studio in Queens, which is home to the largest population of Tibetans outside China, Nepal and India.
Weinreb’s mother, originally from Lhasa, came to the United States for college by way of India, where many Tibetans fled after China’s invasion and subsequent occupation of Tibet in 1949. After securing her citizenship, she was able to sponsor green cards for several members of her family, who ultimately established themselves as New Yorkers by the 1990s.
One of Weinreb’s earliest memories of Losar is deep-cleaning his family’s SoHo loft, dusting the tankas (traditional Buddhist scroll paintings) and polishing offering bowls at his family’s altar, a tradition that symbolizes cleansing and purification ahead of the new year.
This year, Losar began on Feb. 18, marking the first day in the Tibetan lunisolar calendar.
In his work , Weinreb draws inspiration from his identity and often borrows motifs from traditional Tibetan Buddhism. In 2014, he created “Offerings,” a series of seven wax bowls illuminated by LED lights. The work, which was later put on display as part of the “ Shrine Room Projects” at the Rubin Museum , is a homage to Yönchap, the daily Tibetan Buddhist practice of offering seven bowls of fresh water before deities on an altar.
This Losar, Weinreb, his wife, their son and other family members gathered at his parents’ apartment to perform Yönchap, share a meal and place auspicious offerings at their family altar, inviting an abundant and blessed year ahead.
This story is part of a series on how Asian Americans are shaping American popular culture. The series is funded through a grant from The Asian American Foundation . Funders have no control over the selection and focus of stories or the editing process and do not review stories before publication. The Times retains full editorial control of this series.
Design and Development: Alice Fang Video Producer: Chevaz Clarke Video Editors: Chevaz Clarke and Daniel Fetherston Video Senior Producer: Rex Sakamoto Production Manager: Nicole Huber Cinematography: Jeff Perlman in Minneapolis, Dan Cain in New Orleans, Nicholas Kraus in Los Angeles, Brendan George Ko in Hawaii, Luke Piotrowski in New York.
In an earlier version of this story, the text incorrectly stated that Weinreb's mother came to the U.S. for college by way of Nepal. She came to the U.S. for college by way of India.
An earlier version of this story misstated the proximity of Arbeiter Brewing Company and where George Floyd was killed. He was killed approximately two miles from the brewery. Protests about his death took place blocks from the brewery.