article_id: nyt_22
url: https://www.nytimes.com/section/t-magazine/fashion?page=9
title: Fashion
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Beachy, retro garments — wet suits, tie-dye, flip-flops — give traditional tailoring a fresh edge.
By Thue Nørgaard and Hisato Tasaka
This spring, men’s wear offers both soft silhouettes and sharp tailoring, with moods ranging from modern to traditional.
By Robin Galiegue and Jacob K
Relaxed shapes meet throwback details for spring’s most easygoing men’s styles.
By Olimpia Taliani de Marchio and Paul Maximilian
Dries Van Noten’s creative director, Julian Klausner, pulls back the curtain on his process.
By Jameson Montgomery
Is This the New Ballet Flat?
The spring runways were awash with delicate, derby-inspired shoes.
Jazz Style Is Back in the Spotlight
Fashion’s latest ode to the genre includes pinstripes, double-breasted suits and sharp shoes.
By Shikeith and Sasha Kelly
Six Rising Fashion Designers Who Have Our Attention
These talents are showing their work in London, Milan or Paris.
Unexpected, 1980s-Inspired Clothes That Make a Statement
With wild accessories and maximalist color combinations, these looks demand attention.
By Crista Leonard and Agata Belcen
Fashion That’s Both Elegant and Undone
After years of highly polished designs, spring looks project confidence with frayed hems and graceful, worn-in shapes.
By Marc Hibbert and Benoit Bethume
Maximalist Dressing for Day and Night
This season, fashion swings from fun and bright to darkly sultry, but more is always more.
By Carlijn Jacobs Anthony Seklaoui and Imruh Asha
Elegant, Unfussy Holiday Fashion
This season is all about ease, with refined, high-contrast looks that are free of adornment.
By Julien Martinez Leclerc and Vanessa Reid
This Season, Even Sportswear Can Be Festive
Pops of vibrant color enliven and unite athletic pieces and classic men’s tailoring.
By Kwabena Sekyi Appiah-nti and Delphine Danhier
Fashion to Wear on Your Boldest Adventures
Clothes with extreme proportions and surreal silhouettes can’t help but make a statement.
By Jack Davison and Raphael Hirsch
Is There Anything Better Than a Perfectly Tailored Outfit?
The unbridled joy of dressing up is back, with classic suiting serving as the foundation and whimsical accessories adding some fun.
By Chris Verene and Patrick Welde
Luxury Bags That Are Beautifully Imperfect
Whether folded, scrunched or deliberately distressed, these spring carryalls celebrate a casual elegance.
The Prettiest Holiday Shoes Come With Bows on Top
Fancy ribbons add charm to these party accessories.
Vanity Cases for Travel and Everyday
Structured, vintage-style handle top bags look new again.
This Season, It’s Easy to Be Green
In shades from soft moss to deep pine, these bags and shoes go with just about everything.
Our Favorite Pedestal Tables to Add Elegance to Any Space
The simple shape is the ideal stage for luxe materials like cool stone, bright lacquer and warm wood.
In a season of debuts, the fashion designer’s impact has never felt stronger. Here are five of her legacies.
We tracked down some footwear Alan Wyffels wore to exchange vows with his now-husband, Perfume Genius.
By Jameson Montgomery
Five talents who helm independent labels — and lead with craft.
By Jameson Montgomery
For her debut, Louise Trotter reinterprets a signature woven leather accessory.
Part of a microtrend in art and design, designers are making home objects that resemble clothes.
As he celebrates his 10th year at Café Carlyle — and his quippy turn in “Marty Supreme” — we catch up with Isaac Mizrahi.
As part of their debut at the Spanish brand, Jack McCollough and Lazaro Hernandez gave the 1975 style a slouchy, easygoing feel.
New iterations of a classic accessory, designed to be on the move.
These utility-inflected styles are practical yet polished.
Over the last decade, streetwear grew saturated and stagnant. Clint Ogbenna saw an opportunity.
Nafisa Tosh is responsible for many of the most memorable red carpet moments of the last several years. Few people know her role even exists.
By Mark C. O’Flaherty
Elevated takes on cold-weather essentials to get you through the season.
At just 32, Ralph Fitzgerald, a raffish Brit with the look of a Guy Ritchie character, has become the tailor to movie stars, financial executives and Marc Jacobs.
Two artists spent 30 years cataloging how people dress and learned a lot about humanity in the process.
Ideal for this time of year, these pumps will lend a festive spirit to any outfit.
Omega’s Speedmaster, worn by Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong on their 1969 journey to the moon, gets an update.
We’re on the hunt for an outfit worn in the 1971 science-fiction movie “Escape from the Planet of the Apes.”
By Jameson Montgomery
Emeralds, perhaps more than any other stone, are a perfect fit for flora- and fauna-inspired statement pieces.
How a John Lobb loafer comes together.
Farida Khelfa modeled for Gaultier, Alaïa and more. In turn, they gave her clothes. Now she’s letting go of 200 items from her fabled wardrobe.
Our favorite examples of the classic and versatile style, which will carry you from day to night.
This Vacheron Constantin moon phase watch reflects the brand’s astronomical history.
We asked readers for their toughest holiday quandaries. Here are our suggestions.
The recently appointed Marni creative director talks formative moments and long-held inspirations.
Lady E, a travel-inspired fashion line with a focus on outerwear, brightens typical English style with Indian textiles.
In her life after Man Repeller, is Leandra Medine Cohen the most creative fashion stylist working today?
A roundup of the latest takes on the classic style.
By Jameson Montgomery
Pierpaolo Piccioli shares his inspirations, including the Hindu festival Maha Kumbh Mela and amulets made from coral.
With wide shoulders, louche silhouettes and a warm, earthy palette, the season’s laid-back men’s wear channels the spirit of the era.
By Alex Huanfa Cheng and Paul Maximilian
A season that included off-putting, sometimes cruel designs left us wondering about what it all means.
From bags that drip with toys to shoes decorated with feathery organza and fruits, the season’s most talked about accent pieces offer unabashed fun.
And other takeaways courtesy of T’s editors after a month’s worth of shows in New York, London, Milan and Paris.
By Nick Haramis, Patrick Li, Kate Lanphear, Jaclyn Bloomfield and Jameson Montgomery
Piaget’s new timepiece has a Pop Art flair.
Plus: a Surrealist exhibition in New York, floating saunas and more recommendations from T Magazine.
Seven designers on their biggest mishaps.
We spoke to the real-life version of Gucci’s characters.
A roundup of flat, knee-high styles that are both practical and pleasing to the eye.
After years in the fashion trenches, Ilaria Icardi made a foray into accessories. It’s been golden.
Whether oversize, fuzzy or dramatically retro, fall’s finest outerwear is sure to stand out.
By Fumi Nagasaka and Ben Perreira
Woolly, tweedy, fuzzy materials add warmth and tactile appeal to the season’s heels and bags.
An exhibition dedicated to the style of Marie Antoinette opens at the V&A in London. Mr. Blahnik, who made footwear for Sofia Coppola’s movie about her, has some thoughts.
In our new series, we help readers track down the objects and styles they can’t stop thinking about.
Chanel’s new celestial diamond accessories pay tribute to a 1932 comet choker designed by Coco herself.
Whether they’re showing in New York or London, these six designers are on the rise.
By Jameson Montgomery
Rachel Scott of Diotima held her first runway show, and it was worth the wait.
Ms. Coppola’s first-ever documentary, unveiled at the Venice Film Festival, is an affectionate portrait of her decades-long bond with the designer.
The designer’s innovations — for the chief executive and the celebrity — made Armani a household name.
With leather, jewels and pinstripes, these fall looks are made for skipping the line and seeking the spotlight.
By Bon Duke and Anatolli Smith
Buckle-topped men’s footwear is making a comeback for fall.
This fall, men’s wear features everything from neat tailoring to wild textures, bright accessories and even some sequins.
By Kristin-Lee Moolman and Zara Mirkin
With diamond laurel leaves and ruby berries, a Boucheron accessory reflects the brand founder’s obsession with the natural world.
Plus: a new palazzo hotel in Florence, ceramic dishes in citrus colors and more recommendations from T Magazine.
This fall, tailored outerwear for men comes in classic shapes and a range of materials — from woolens to experimental synthetics.
By Michael Hauptman and Sasha Kelly
A roundup of totes for the office that are both eminently functional and refreshingly stylish.
Snakeskin patterns add an elegant touch to structured purses.
Patrick Bateman, the titular ‘American Psycho’, was written as satire. He’s also the inspiration for a new perfume and bar.
By Jameson Montgomery
Romantic flourishes meet modern daywear for a fresh but timeless look.
By Olimpia Taliani de Marchio and Agata Belcen
A peek at the construction of a new platinum accessory that was inspired by a bird’s wing.
Rather than presenting uniform trends, many designers are offering something for everyone this season, from classic suits to statement-making dresses.
By Roe Ethridge and Charlotte Collet
Plus: a new hotel in Marseille, watercolors on unexpected canvases and more recommendations from T Magazine.
The new accessory takes inspiration from one owned by a New York City society swan.
Monochrome palettes let elegant silhouettes and bold textures take center stage this fall.
By Iñigo Awewave and Nathan Klein
Despite the crippling effects of sky-high stilettos, a new generation of fans can’t stay out of Christian Louboutin heels.
Professional advice on the at-home and in-office treatments that actually work.
Why has this obsession endured?
Expert advice from a surfer, a hairstylist and a model.
A roundup of practical guides for the season, featuring tips for hosting, organizing a last-minute vacation and more.
She oversaw fashion coverage beginning in 1957, when hemlines made headlines. She later made groundbreaking ads for Henri Bendel with her photographer husband, Gösta Peterson.
And what’s in it for the brands? As the industry’s model for working with public figures shifts, the power dynamics are becoming increasingly unclear.
Daisy Knatchbull set up shop as a dedicated women’s tailor on the world’s most famous street for men’s clothing. Now her sights are set on America.
Take T’s quiz to find the styles that best match your mood, and vacation plans, this summer.
Archival photographs, fashion layouts and anecdotes from celebrity clients: A new book is devoted to all things Valentino.
Hand-forged armor. Prehistoric bones. Music that’s never been digitized. This isn’t retail — it’s an invitation-only obsession.
By Laurie Gwen Shapiro and Hiroko Masuike
Ahead of Father’s Day, a roundup of colorful water-resistant styles.
By Jameson Montgomery
A new memoir by her closest friend sheds light on the woman behind the image.
The founder of the footwear brand Le Monde Béryl hosted a 100-plus-person gathering at her artist sister’s home in Harlem.
Plus: home goods featuring paintings by beloved Greek artist, a Danish watch brand’s comeback and more recommendations from T Magazine.
Jessica McCormack, the London jeweler with a knack for injecting cool-girl energy into top-dollar pieces, has opened a shop in Manhattan.
Plus: an exhibition of Paul Thek’s paintings, a stylish cottage on Lake Michigan and more recommendations from T Magazine.
Liz Goldwyn, native Angeleno with a famous last name, spent years collecting vintage fashion. Now she’s selling some of her best pieces.
Fashion archivists, designers and home organizers share their best advice for keeping moths, stains and other wardrobe nuisances at bay.
These pared-down summer shoes won’t go out of fashion.
Plus: a new cliff-top hotel on a Greek island, an exhibition of Yayoi Kusama and Atsuko Tanaka’s art in New York and more recommendations from T Magazine.
This summer, mix luxurious fabrics and easy silhouettes.
By Durimel and Vanessa Reid
Expert advice on dealing with breakouts from the artist SZA, the dermatologist David Kim and the aesthetician Tiara Willis.
A roundup of rubber sandals, for a variety of occasions and budgets.
Airy, light weaves add texture to spring men’s wear.
By Jody Rogac and Hisato Tasaka
A gem-encrusted timepiece from Van Cleef & Arpels harks back to early 20th-century bow-shaped brooches.
The artists, musicians and writers pushing past decades of historical erasure.
From Rei Kawakubo to Yohji Yamamoto, the country’s fashion pioneers continue to revolutionize global style.
By Nick Haramis and Masaya Tanaka