article_id: nyt_23
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/organization/new-york-city-ballet?page=9
title: New York City Ballet
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The ballet company, one of the country’s most prestigious, had been under pressure to cancel its shows amid President Trump’s takeover of the performing arts center.
Taylor Stanley debuts as Carabosse, the glamorous, evil fairy in “The Sleeping Beauty.” He is the first male-identifying person to take the role at New York City Ballet.
At New York City Ballet, Alexei Ratmansky exposes the current moment with a political satire based on “The Emperor’s New Clothes.”
“The Naked King,” based on “The Emperor’s New Clothes,” debuts Thursday. “I’ve been dealing with what I’ve been experiencing in life and in the news,” Ratmansky said.
Peck’s “The Wind-Up,” set to the first movement of the “Eroica” symphony, doesn’t rise to the challenge of the music but is refreshing in other ways.
Ballet evolves slowly, and that includes footwear. But a new shoe with sneaker technology is giving dancers support from the heel up.
Jenelle Manzi started a nutrition company while performing with New York City Ballet. Now she’s doing her makeup in cabs and taking Zoom meetings as she sews pointe shoes.
By Nadav Gavrielov and Ye Fan
At New York City Ballet, two boys from the School of American Ballet get to play a coveted role: Fritz, a terror of a little brother.
By Gia Kourlas and Thea Traff
At New York’s performing arts venues, herding audiences is a melodic mission.
By Michaela Towfighi and Vincent Alban
Dancers are famous for buckling down and getting through it. But a new openness about mental health has companies and schools focusing on their well-being, both physical and emotional.
By Gia Kourlas and Thea Traff
The programs were all over the map, but the dancers held the season together. Six were promoted, including India Bradley, the first Black woman to become a soloist.
Collaborating with the choreographer Jamar Roberts for the New York City Ballet fashion gala, Iris van Herpen created costumes that merged fantasy and form.
By Roslyn Sulcas and Nina Westervelt
The fund-raiser drew celebrities, rock stars and designers, though its red carpet and dinner was boycotted by the company’s dancers who are fighting for pay increases.
New York City Ballet presents a new work of uncanny beauty, with costumes by Iris van Herpen, inspired by nature and technology.
Jon Stewart, Atsuko Okatsuka and Pete Davidson are just three stars making us laugh this month, while cosplayers and fans assemble for the ultimate geek fest.
The next step for “Ballade,” coached by its original ballerina, Merrill Ashley, is to keep it in the repertory. Especially with Mira Nadon in the lead.
The annual festival, popular for its take-a-chance-priced tickets, opened with a show featuring work by Jamar Roberts, the tap dancer Dario Natarelli and Akram Khan.
On the movie’s 15th anniversary, four dancers talk about its influence. “We’re not that crazy,” one said. But “it didn’t make ballet a joke,” another added.
Garcia, a former principal at New York City Ballet and San Francisco Ballet, takes over as Miami City celebrates its 40th anniversary.
Our critics picked 10 performances that have offered a robust alternative to the here and now with a tonic of beauty, rage and wisdom.
By Gia Kourlas and Brian Seibert
The spring season of New York City Ballet didn’t seem to warrant much excitement — until it did, with a rush of dynamic debuts.
The married, Tony-nominated choreographers of “Buena Vista Social Club” designed their home to be comfortable and personal.
It could be that the youngest dancers are the real stars of “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” at New York City Ballet.
By Gia Kourlas and Erik Tanner
The New York City Ballet principal Andrew Veyette is retiring after 25 years: “My path had a lot of peaks and valleys. Some very deep and some very high.”
He is believed to have been the first Asian to dance with New York City Ballet when he was cast in George Balanchine’s production of “The Nutcracker.”
“There’s a time for everything,” said Farrell, who has returned to New York City Ballet to teach a new and eager generation of dancers.
Roman Mejia, a New York City Ballet principal, shows how bravura and subtlety can exist side by side in a season that includes a sparkling “Apollo” debut.
By Gia Kourlas and Thea Traff
He brought grace and power to his roles before a serious injury encouraged him to try choreography — “maybe the richest part of my life.”
Protesters interrupted an all-Balanchine program on the company’s spring season opening night, which coincided this year with Earth Day.
By Javier C. Hernández, Rachel Saltz and Amanda Webster
Two of the art form’s best join forces in a program curated by Mearns at City Center that features a new work by Roberts, “Dance Is a Mother.”
The 2025-26 season, which includes a Balanchine revival and premieres by Justin Peck and Alexei Ratmansky, will also see the retirement of Megan Fairchild in spring.
Jenifer Ringer, the celebrated New York City Ballet principal, is back at the School of American Ballet in a new role: teacher and guiding light.
By Gia Kourlas and Amir Hamja
It was a busy winter: Ashley Bouder bid farewell, Mira Nadon dazzled in “Swan Lake,” Maria Tallchief was honored and Alexei Ratmansky had another winner.
Miriam Miller, newly promoted to principal at New York City Ballet, is set to make her debut in “Swan Lake.”
Ashley Bouder, the longtime New York City Ballet principal, is leaving with a final performance in “Firebird.”
Alexei Ratmansky creates a joyful new “Paquita” for New York City Ballet, giving the dancers a classical frame in which to find new versions of themselves.
Alexei Ratmansky’s “Paquita” brings Marius Petipa’s 19th-century style to New York City Ballet through two lenses: his own and George Balanchine’s.
“Mystic Familiar,” a New York City Ballet premiere, has a score by the musician Dan Deacon and some all-too-familiar sentiments.
The ballerina is leaving the company in February after 25 years. She will dance the lead in “Firebird” in her final program.
Widely considered America’s first prima ballerina, Tallchief is being celebrated by New York City Ballet, where she was a Balanchine muse, in her centennial year.
Sara Mearns, the New York City Ballet principal, announced her 10-year struggle on Instagram. She tested out her new hearing aids in “The Nutcracker.”
Writing for The New Yorker, she was both admired and feared, wielding a sometimes merciless pen. Her study of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers drew accolades.
Betti Franceschi has lived in her art-filled Upper West Side apartment for decades. For her latest project, she published a book of photographs featuring dancers from her generation.
This season, two vivacious boys at the School of American Ballet make their princely debuts in New York City Ballet’s production of “The Nutcracker.”
By Gia Kourlas and Stella Blackmon
The fall season wrapped up with an excellent program featuring works by Balanchine and Ratmansky, as well as a celebration of Justin Peck’s 10th year as resident choreographer.
Selections from the Weekend section, including a review of “Disclaimer,” Alfonso Cuarón’s limited series for Apple TV+.
New York City Ballet dressed up its fall fashion gala with a program of female choreographers. This was history, even if the results were mixed.
Olivia Bell, 20, a radiant member of New York City Ballet, reprises the role she knocked out of the park as a student: “I want to do it right.”
New York City Ballet opened its fall season with classics by George Balanchine and Jerome Robbins, along with a company premiere by Lar Lubovitch.
Original cast members look back at George Balanchine and Alexandra Danilova’s staging of the 19th-century ballet. “Everyone knows when something is good,” one said.
The 10-day festival at City Center opened with a program of works by Alexei Ratmansky, Tiler Peck and Andrea Miller.
New York City Ballet wrapped up its 75th anniversary celebration at Lincoln Center this spring with a look to the future. But it didn’t always speak to it.
Mira Nadon, the rising New York City Ballet principal, is coming off her best season yet. And it’s only the beginning.
The two premieres — one by Justin Peck, one by Amy Hall Garner — were gala-style pieces that felt more fresh than rote.
The spring season at New York City Ballet opened with an all-Balanchine program and a vintage miniature from 1975: “Errante,” staged for a new generation.
New York City Ballet will present a mix of old and new works, including premieres by Justin Peck, Alexei Ratmansky and Caili Quan, and introduce fewer intermissions.
Click through as Joseph Gordon performs a section from Alexei Ratmansky’s new dance for New York City Ballet, a reaction to the horrors of the war in Ukraine.
By Gia Kourlas and Stephan Alessi
Justin Peck, who directs and choreographs a narrative dance musical to Sufjan Stevens’s concept album “Illinois,” resorts to his usual standby: community.
New works, by Alexei Ratmansky and Tiler Peck, and revivals brought solace and sadness, beauty and humor — and full-out, thrilling dancing this winter season.
The institution co-founded by George Balanchine celebrated at Lincoln Center on Monday night.
By Sarah Bahr and Dolly Faibyshev
In “Solitude,” a stellar, haunting work that had its premiere on Thursday, New York City Ballet’s artist in residence brings a photograph to life.
The nonbinary dancers Ashton Edwards and Taylor Stanley made history in their magnetic performance of Justin Peck’s “The Times Are Racing” at New York City Ballet.
Alexei Ratmansky, arguably the most important ballet choreographer today, has made a deeply personal first work as artist in residence that reflects his Ukrainian roots.
George Lee was the original Tea in “George Balanchine’s The Nutcracker.” A documentary filmmaker found him and a lost part of ballet history in Las Vegas.
Peck’s choreographic debut for the company, the lively “Concerto for Two Pianos,” shares the spotlight with Alexei Ratmansky’s mysterious, wonderful “Odesa.”
Chita Rivera saw herself as a dancer, and that’s fitting: Her early ballet training was her secret weapon — and it never left her body.
Tiler Peck, a New York City Ballet star, is making her first work for the company. “It’s my opportunity to pass on to the next generation anything that’s been given to me.”
A selection of entertainment highlights this weekend, including the new comedy from Mike Judge and Zach Woods, “In the Know”
“A Dewdrop is a drop of dew,” India Bradley said. “So can’t anyone do it?” She and the guest artist Alexandra Hutchinson perform the role in “George Balanchine’s The Nutcracker.”
The agreement, which includes an increase in compensation of about 22 percent over three years, ends months of tense negotiations.
By Javier C. Hernández
A selection of entertainment highlights this weekend, including “Maestro,” Bradley Cooper’s biopic on Leonard Bernstein.
Siblings, a Soldier from Ukraine and a New Prince: Children are the heart of this New York City Ballet classic. We hung out with four in this year’s production.
By Gia Kourlas and OK McCausland
The Empire State Building honors New York City Ballet’s 75th anniversary by lighting up in blue, favored by George Balanchine as a backdrop.
The New York City Ballet and Carnegie Hall hosted galas and Spike Lee celebrated his new exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum.
By Melissa Guerrero and Katie Van Syckle
New York City Ballet hosted a gala with unfortunate new costumes for Balanchine’s “Who Cares?” But the repertory is what matters, and it’s been dazzling.
The iridescent Balanchine ballerina returns to New York City Ballet this season to coach for “La Sonnambula.” What does she want? Mystery.
New York City Ballet kicked off its 75th anniversary season with George Balanchine’s full-length triptych “Jewels” and a poignant onstage tribute.
“I know that I am about to give up one of my primary ways of being me,” Russell Janzen writes about retiring from New York City Ballet after 16 years.
Stars like Suzanne Farrell and Edward Villella celebrated alongside dancers of today, many born years after the death of George Balanchine, the company’s revered founder.
Original cast members talk about their experiences making the three-part plotless ballet, which opens New York City Ballet’s 75th anniversary season.
More than 100 designer costumes from the New York City Ballet are featured in a new book photographed by Pari Dukovic.
To make a company, George Balanchine first needed to make dancers. At 75, New York City Ballet pays tribute to its dancers, including a few who were there at the start.
Balanchine didn’t think his ballets would last. But many have become classics, the cornerstone of repertory not just at City Ballet but around the world.
The company has rebounded after the pandemic and a series of scandals, stabilizing its finances, revamping its culture and attracting younger audiences.
By Javier C. Hernández
The esteemed editor, who died last week at 92, was a balletomane who was known to program New York City Ballet seasons from his offices at Alfred A. Knopf and The New Yorker.
A flurry of debuts. The return of Sara Mearns. Performances that lingered after the curtain fell. Here are the highlights from a packed spring season.
After 15 years, New York City Ballet revives “Brandenburg,” the choreographer’s final ballet, with a sparkling new cast.
His exuberant “Brandenburg,” which returns to City Ballet this month, was made near the end of his life, when he was physically and emotionally frail.
The spring gala featured premieres by the veteran Christopher Wheeldon and a newcomer, Alysa Pires. The surprise was the lack of contrast and risk.
For Christopher Wheeldon’s return to New York City Ballet, he asked the artist Kylie Manning not just for backdrops and costumes but to, as he says, “form a dance within her world.”