article_id: nyt_27
url: https://www.nytimes.com/international/section/theater?page=9
title: Theater
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
By transmitting his love of live performance, the “Just in Time” actor has completed his ascendance to full musical stardom.
By Ben Brantley and Mohamed Sadek
The actor Chadwick Boseman was a playwright, too. At Shakespeare’s Globe in London, his “Deep Azure” is drawing attention to a lost talent inspired by the Bard.
The two musicals secured 11 nominations each for Britain’s equivalent of the Tony Awards. Cate Blanchett, Bryan Cranston and Rachel Zegler are also among the nominees.
Hugh Jackman returns in “Sexual Misconduct of the Middle Classes,” Jesse Tyler Ferguson plays Truman Capote, and Celia Keenan-Bolger and Tony Shalhoub star in an “Antigone” riff.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Hamnet, Hamlet and Oscar Wao: Three Lost Boys Across Time
In the stage versions of two beloved books, the most impressive moments emerge when the productions stray from the source material.
‘Night Side Songs’ Review: Feel Free to Sing Along
The Lazours’ intimate new musical about illness and mortality is also about finding solace in other people, and in art.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
For a Lesbian Twist on ‘Cyrano,’ They Enlisted an Indigo Girl
Opening a decade after “Fun Home” debuted on Broadway, the new musical “Starstruck” has a lesbian protagonist and a female creative team. That still seems radical.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
‘Bigfoot!’ Review: An Ogre Who Just Wants to Be Friends
The new musical from the comedian Amber Ruffin has a wholesome moral and silliness in spades.
‘Chinese Republicans’ Review: These Women Are Playing to Win
Alex Lin’s new play focuses on four ambitious climbers of the corporate ladder. But their success comes at what cost?
With her frenetic energy and 4-foot-10 frame, Ms. Lee seemed destined to play a certain kind of stage character: excitable, endearing and charmingly scheming.
In Aya Ogawa’s compassionate, sharply comical play, the pastel-pink public image of mommyhood doesn’t stand a chance.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
For eight weeks this spring, the popular rapper will be featured as a nightclub impresario in “Moulin Rouge! The Musical.”
Lauren Yee’s boisterous play “Mother Russia,” about the origins of the contemporary oligarchy, has its roots in her San Francisco childhood.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Clare Barron’s gorgeous play, about an unmoored young woman returning home to care for her father, finds a new home at Cherry Lane Theater.
A strong cast stars in Lauren Yee’s new play, part of a cycle of works about the collisions between 20th-century communism, capitalism and pop culture.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
This bio play about Marcel Marceau, which delves into his part in the French Resistance, stars Ethan Slater (yes, that’s Boq from the “Wicked” movies).
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Phanésia Pharel’s wistful two-hander starring Patrice Johnson Chevannes and Natalie Paul looks at a Haitian American family and questions of legacy.
An Oscar nominee for a movie in which everything crashes down on her (literally), Byrne is shifting gears with the Broadway comedy “Fallen Angels.”
By Leah Greenblatt and Sam Hellmann
With “The Lost Boys” on Broadway and Cynthia Erivo in “Dracula” in London, our horror expert looks at how bloodsuckers sank their teeth into pop culture.
The German actor Lars Eidinger lost control of the weapon in the final scene of Shakespeare’s play.
By Christopher F. Schuetze
Plays about addiction are filling Manhattan stages this month, depicting very different places on the recovery spectrum, from harrowing to serene.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
The Marvel alumni will star in Jamie Lloyd’s mischievous take on Shakespeare’s comedy.
He created sets and lighting for dozens of productions, including “Long Day’s Journey Into Night,” and established a new art form with his theater of the deaf, combining sign and spoken language.
The “Wicked” actress plays 23 roles in a one-woman show on London’s West End.
Without the usual flood of new musicals, the playwrights of works like “Becky Shaw,” “Dog Day Afternoon” and “Giant” are getting a chance to shine.
Onstage, “Cats: The Jellicle Ball” and Adrien Brody in “The Fear of 13.” Plus: Cardi B goes on tour, Lise Davidsen takes on Isolde at the Met, 100 years of Martha Graham and more.
Across the country, a flurry of theater productions, including “Black Swan” and “The Lunchbox,” are mining the movies for material.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Kathleen Chalfant, Elizabeth Marvel, April Matthis and other actors deliver top-notch performances in a play that leaves questions unanswered.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
The Tony winner returns to the stage in “Every Brilliant Thing,” an interactive monologue with a message of hope “that might be vital for somebody to hear.”
By Michael Paulson and Lucia Bell-Epstein
Theater for a New Audience’s reimagining of the Shakespearean tragedy misses an opportunity to engage the play’s many echoes with our own tense era.
Fifty years ago, Junior LaBeija couldn’t afford to see André De Shields in “The Wiz.” Now, they’re starring together in a reimagining of “Cats.”
By Elisabeth Vincentelli and Marcus Maddox
Other picks include Leo McGann’s thriller “The Honey Trap” for Irish Rep; Anne Gridley’s “Watch Me Walk”; and a Jodi Picoult stage adaptation.
Milo Rau’s examination of the infamous broadcast that preceded the Rwandan genocide is onstage now. Two other works, including “The Pelicot Trial,” arrive in March.
The chameleonic actor takes on several characters in David Cale’s solo play about a writer in pursuit of his stalker. Or is it all in his mind?
At the heart of Daniel Fish’s verbatim staging of a C-SPAN segment is a complex relationship, between Larry Kramer and Anthony Fauci, that “goes from ‘I hate you’ to ‘I love you’ and back.”
Ngozi Anyanwu’s searing two-hander follows a brother and sister who train in boxing, side by side.
In Alexander Zeldin’s naturalistic adaptation of “Antigone,” Tobias Menzies and Emma D’Arcy star as a feuding uncle and niece.
The musical, called “Galileo,” will star Raúl Esparza, and is scheduled to open in December at the Shubert Theater.
He often insulted his pupils, but many became stars, including Sacha Baron Cohen, Emma Thompson and Rachel Weisz.
Fans are recreating stellar performances in song-and-dance videos that put themselves in the action.
Christiani Pitts and Sam Tutty, the stars of the new musical “Two Strangers (Carry a Cake Across New York),” meet for a stroll one blustery afternoon.
By Douglas Corzine and Marissa Alper
He’s most commonly recognized for his screen roles as a plotting hit man and an unlikely Lothario, but it’s his work as a playwright that shows more of his true self.
A revival of a 1964 musical, which puts a supernatural spin on a Noël Coward play, features a starry cast: Andrea Martin, Phillipa Soo, Steven Pasquale and Katrina Lenk.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
The final New York performance will be July 26, seven years after it opened; international and touring productions continue.
A new London production of the playwright’s masterpiece has extra poignancy just months after his death.
Ten actors wear the crowns in Karin Coonrod’s production, which is rich with twilight revelation, at La MaMa in Manhattan.
She was a ubiquitous presence at London theaters and claimed to have inspired the name — and final words — of Tennessee Williams’s Blanche DuBois.
Libby Howes was an imposing presence onstage with the Wooster Group. But after abruptly leaving New York in 1981 she became a theater world mystery. What happened?
Opera Philadelphia’s latest premiere is like an exquisite corpse, with a libretto by Michael R. Jackson and starring Justin Vivian Bond.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
The actor Harry Melling shed his image as Harry’s cruel cousin, Dudley Dursley — and his clothes — to star in the queer romance “Pillion.”
A new work by the director Lorraine de Sagazan looks at a high-profile case that will soon be heard in a French court.
In David Cale’s “The Unknown,” the actor plays 11 characters including a writer suffering the horrors of writer’s block and an unraveling mind.
His New Federal Theater in New York provided a rare stage for Black playwrights and emerging actors, among them Denzel Washington, Phylicia Rashad and Chadwick Boseman.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Sean Hayes performs a new solo thriller, Alia Shawkat leads a play revival and Ethan Slater stars as Marcel Marceau in a world premiere.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
Personal history emerges by painful degrees in “Oedipus,” whose language and story, the actress Lesley Manville says, “wreck me every time.”
A Disney fan who once “flew” off his couch as a 4-year-old Peter Pan, he was a co-director of the animated film and a co-writer of the Broadway musical, both of them megahits.
Peyton List watched the movie as a teenager, now the star of “School Spirits” is playing the acid-tongued queen bee Heather Chandler onstage.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Crowds are flocking to an annual festival for performances of “A Doll’s House,” a “Macbeth”-inspired witch tale and more featuring puppets big and small.
By Laura Collins-Hughes and Alexander Coggin
“Watch Me Walk,” “Ulysses” and other offerings from Under the Radar and the Exponential Festival engage with personal histories and the works of literary lions.
Judy Collins, Mandy Patinkin, Renée Fleming, Michael R. Jackson, Melissa Errico, Tony Kushner, Sherman Irby and New York Times writers and editors pick 14 songs to seal the deal.
“The Outsiders” is the first new musical to open since 2022 to become profitable.
In Matthew Libby’s play, a brilliant young computer programmer finds himself at the center of one of the most contentious issues of the moment: immigration.
Broadway, Hollywood and television have been kind to Marc Shaiman. But there’s a reason the subtitle of his new memoir is “Showbiz Stories From a Sore Winner.”
Miet Warlop’s work is visually breathtaking, but there are deep questions to ponder beneath the showy surfaces.
By Alex Marshall and Ilvy Njiokiktjien
The curtain is about to come down on two jukebox musicals, a thriller by Tracy Letts, and other Broadway productions.
By Laura Collins-Hughes
In the first year of his second term, President Trump has made sweeping efforts to influence the arts and media in America.
As TV’s go-to maniac, the actor has a flair for chaos that also functions as a kind of emotional armor. “I’m still very protective of the actual me,” he said.
January is not a dry month for performance in New York, and this season, there were wide-ranging views of how bodies — more than words — can tell stories.
See how many novels you can connect with phrases from the plays of William Shakespeare.
Musicians, theater groups and others from overseas are facing visa challenges and rising costs, posing a looming crisis for the performing arts sector.
An immersive adaptation of Andrew Lloyd Webber’s musical has seen some people return a dozen times since it began performances last summer.
She was a founder and the longtime artistic director of Shakespeare & Company, a repertory theater in western Massachusetts, and directed all his plays.
City Winery’s 50th anniversary screening of the film encouraged some inventive dress up, including tributes to fan favorites like Rocky and Dr. Frank-N-Furter.
By Vidhya Nagarajan and Sarah Bahr
Everyone expected “The Kholops,” a drama exploring oppression, to be shut down soon after it opened in St. Petersburg. Instead, it is two years into a sold-out run.
Erica Schmidt’s discordant comedy, starring Hamish Linklater and Miriam Silverman, is a farce clumsily straddling two genres.
Michael Gordon and Richard Foreman’s “What to Wear” at BAM is a visually rich, textually odd work — and a hot commodity.
By Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim
Jade Franks mines the awkwardness of social mobility in her one-woman show “Eat the Rich.”
He was a familiar face from Broadway productions of “Company,” “Titanic” and “Six Degrees of Separation” and from many movie and TV appearances.
Other picks include “Bat Out of Hell: The Musical,” a new season of Playing on Air podcasts and “Lazarus,” featuring the music of David Bowie.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Though the show will close in New York next month, a North American tour will continue, and productions in Australia, Germany and South Korea are planned.
In 1970, he founded London’s Young Vic, an adventurous “people’s theater” (the Who took the stage at one point) before shaking up the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
The composer Michael Gordon collaborated with Foreman on “What to Wear” in 2006. The opera makes its belated New York premiere at BAM on Thursday.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Deborah Warner, known for directing theater and opera, succeeds Pierre Audi, who died last year. Her own work is expected to be part of her programming.
The play, about a man who spends decades on death row before being exonerated by DNA evidence, will have a 16-week run this spring.
Audiences can embark on a very different type of theatrical experience in a new play at the Shed, blending the physical world with digital content.
As a journalist, I thought I’d never join the ranks of obsessive superfans — until I suddenly became one.
By Taffy Brodesser-Akner
“I see why nerd culture is so exciting and fun,” said the “Drag Race” alum ahead of his Broadway debut in “Moulin Rouge.”
The mayor said a new initiative by the Under the Radar festival exemplified an arts affordability agenda that he intends to pursue.
Tracy Letts’s eerily topical, decades-old play about a woman’s descent into a world of conspiracy theories makes its nerve-rattling Broadway debut.
Scholars and artists at Sorbonne University trained artificial intelligence to imitate the French playwright’s themes, structures and sense of humor. The result is a new play.
Several festivals run across New York this month, but none are as big and eclectic as Under the Radar, founded in 2005. Here are our picks for what to see.
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
The Albanian Greek director Mario Banushi talks about his dreamlike “Mami,” which leads the Under the Radar festival in New York this month.
The Shakespearean monologue that is featured twice in “Hamnet” has long informed the movies, often in surprising ways that can make us rethink the words.
He helped create the Off Off Broadway theater scene, wrote and acted in Andy Warhol’s films, and turned his fascination with collectible Americana into books.
She stole the show in “And Just Like That …,” but theater is where the actress’s heart lies.
The Washington National Opera said the “Wicked” composer was scheduled to host its annual event at the center this spring.
By Matt Stevens and Adam Nagourney
In “Marjorie Prime” and other works, Jordan Harrison delivers sweet-bitter anatomies of human connection mediated through technology destined to supersede us.
Times Cooking’s Pizza Interview series introduces a note of nostalgia to encourage stars to open up.
The entertainer, who would have turned 100 this month, reinvented himself by starring in the musical version of Clifford Odets’s prizefighting drama “Golden Boy.”
Stay on top of the top-grossing Broadway shows, recent reviews, Critics’ Picks and more.