article_id: nyt_29
url: https://www.nytimes.com/international/section/movies
title: Movies
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Maggie Gyllenhaal’s time-shifting, genre-hopping riff on Mary Shelley’s creation stars Jessie Buckley and Christian Bale as outlaws in love.
The latest Pixar movie centers on pudgy beavers and a spunky teenager determined to save their habitat.
Hollywood careers don’t always begin where you expect them to, as Jessie Buckley, Teyana Taylor and Emma Stone could tell you.
Maggie Gyllenhaal’s “The Bride!” imagines an empowered mate for the monster. We look back at other memorable cinematic versions.
Watch a Haunting Theatrical Scene From ‘Hamnet’
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a sequence from her film featuring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal. The movie is nominated for eight Oscars, including best picture.
The ‘Sinners’ Cinematographer Says They ‘All Had a Lot on the Line’
The Oscar nominee Autumn Durald Arkapaw’s ambitious collaboration with Ryan Coogler was also risky, starting with the very heavy large-format cameras.
‘Amora,’ ‘Anorak’ and the Fine Art of Getting Movie Titles Wrong
Staffers at Film at Lincoln Center keep a list of the incorrect movie titles they’ve heard from patrons. That list is very, very long.
By Matthew Huff and Tala Safie
5 Oscar-Nominated Children’s Movies to Stream Now
This month’s picks include the animated feature films that are competing for an Academy Award on March 15.
‘Sinners’ and the Price of Artistic Freedom
Onscreen and behind the scenes, the movie is about the pursuit of liberation, not just for its characters, but also for filmmaking itself.
The past and the present converge in this ravishingly beautiful Italian documentary set in the shadow of Mount Vesuvius.
Milla Jovovich plays a mother whose wrath is unleashed when her daughter is kidnapped in this brooding revenge thriller.
The comedian is building a galaxy of collaborators — Timothée Chalamet, Kai Cenat and Justin Bieber — and telling us how they fit into his future.
By Jon Caramanica and Joe Coscarelli
The actor Chadwick Boseman was a playwright, too. At Shakespeare’s Globe in London, his “Deep Azure” is drawing attention to a lost talent inspired by the Bard.
A remake of the 1986 crowd-pleasing hockey movie, starring Ashton James as a promising young Black player, has a lot more on its mind than the original.
This unclassifiable postmodern spoof, from the comedians Nick Corirossi and Armen Weitzman, is a strange, circuitous trip through California wine country.
A loutish teenager is shown the error of his ways in this absurdly gripping psychological thriller.
By Jeannette Catsoulis
In this documentary, an ad man who treats life with irreverence tries to approach his death from colon cancer the same way.
A backwoods monster with a twisted doll obsession puts a couple through the wringer in this unflinching exploitation fairy tale.
A new Bill Lawrence comedy starring Steve Carell and a new mystery starring Nicole Kidman are among this month’s highlights.
A roundup of the latest reviews, releases and more. Every Friday, stay on top of Critics’ Picks, blockbusters and independent films.
Get recommendations on the best TV shows and films to stream and watch.