article_id: nyt_3
url: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2026/02/26/travel/things-to-do-las-vegas.html
title: 36 Hours in Las Vegas
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
By Alex Schechter and Roger Kisby Feb. 26, 2026
By Alex Schechter Photographs by Roger Kisby
Alex Schechter is a frequent contributor to the Travel section and is based in Las Vegas.
Despite some bad publicity about its dwindling tourists, Las Vegas keeps reinventing and reinvesting in itself. Formula 1 became a new annual tradition in 2023, and now draws more than 300,000 racing fans each November. Looking ahead, a close-to $2 billion baseball stadium is on the way , as is the city’s first major art museum , featuring a coppery, canyon-inspired design by the Pritzker Prize-winning architect Francis Kéré. In the meantime, visitors who come for all manner of newfangled thrills — a robot massage , dinner with a side of speedboat , “The Wizard of Oz” blown up to the size of a New York City block — won’t be disappointed.
Neon signs first appeared in Paris in the early 1910s, but no city embraced the electric glow like Las Vegas. Each casino tried to outshine the next; in 1961, Binion’s Gambling Hall unveiled a facade equipped with eight miles of neon tubes. A portion of that sign, and dozens of others, now live at the Neon Boneyard, the open-air exhibition at the Neon Museum (from $25) that comes to life after sundown. A towering neon martini glass commemorates Vegas’s first openly gay bar , while a glitzy, 24-foot-long Debbie Reynolds autograph comes from the actress’s one-time Vegas hotel. The collection extends beyond the museum: Walk to the intersection of Fremont Street and Las Vegas Boulevard to marvel at “Hacienda Horse & Rider,” a twinkling cowboy sign from 1967.
Kick off your Arts District food crawl at Bar Boheme , whose umami-rich, Alsatian-style onion soup ($21), fortified with two kinds of beer, is a standout; all of the menu’s baguettes, sourdough and milk buns are baked daily at a sister restaurant, Esther’s Kitchen . An unmarked alley will lead you to Liquid Diet , a mad scientist’s lab of a bar specializing in unusual concoctions like a bell pepper martini ($18) that perfectly captures the raw vegetable’s savory kick. Across Charleston Boulevard, the minimalist Nocturno takes a fastidious approach to classic cocktails (the Buck, $18, uses rum, fresh-pressed ginger juice and ice spears imported from Japan). The kitchen’s cacio e pepe gnocchi ($16) uses leftover egg yolks from the bar and frequently sells out.
“Dita Von Teese: The Queen of Burlesque” at Voltaire
The 2016 closure of Jubilee, Vegas’s last classic showgirl revue (and the inspiration for Gia Coppola’s recent film “The Last Showgirl” ), marked the end of an era — until 2023, when the burlesque performer Dita Von Teese mounted her own Jubilee-inspired show at the casino-hotel Horseshoe . That show has since moved to Voltaire , the Venetian resort’s flamboyant 1970s-inspired theater. Over 21 polished acts, Ms. Von Teese and her cast of dancers prove just how exhilaratingly eclectic burlesque can be (memorable moments include a male-on-male tango scene and a dreamy number involving a giant clamshell and an inflatable pearl). By the end, when the cast emerges in full showgirl regalia — featuring several Swarovski-studded Bob Mackie originals — you’ll be blinded by all the jewels on display (tickets from $70).
“Dita Von Teese: The Queen of Burlesque” at Voltaire
The LED-wrapped, emoji-winking Sphere has mesmerized visitors since it opened in 2023.
Milkfish Bakeshop may lack a proper storefront, but that hasn’t stopped the Filipino pop-up from scoring two James Beard Award nominations in the last two years. Weekly menus are posted to Instagram , with orders submitted over email the Monday prior (pick-up is from a commissary kitchen across from the Bellagio hotel). That legwork is worth it once you try the co-owner Kimmie Mcintosh’s longanisa sausage cheddar biscuit ($4) and karioka, mochi fritters encrusted with salty-sweet latik, or toasted coconut cream curds ($9 for six). If that’s too much planning, Thomas Keller’s Bouchon Bakery offers a classic pastry basket (four for $25), including pain au chocolat and an outrageous cheese danish brimming over with creamy filling, served in the comfort of a sun-drenched bistro on the Venetian ’s 10th floor.
Spa competition in Vegas is fierce, but Lapis Spa & Wellness , an ambient-lit sanctuary that feels like being inside a crystal, quickly found its niche upon opening in 2023. The generous co-ed area has an aromatherapy room; infrared saunas; a snow shower, chilled to 14 degrees, that spouts icy flakes; a cold plunge; and a lap-pool-size jacuzzi. The large sauna doubles as a theater for daily, on-the-hour Aufguss rituals — sweaty, invigorating performances involving trained dancers who twirl towels to circulate oil-scented air (it’s more relaxing than it sounds). Day passes from $200. After you’ve finished, leave the spa and head upstairs to the hotel’s chic poolside cafe, La Côte , reopening for the season on March 6, for a Mediterranean feast of harissa-topped ahi tuna tartare ($29) and a chorizo-infused Spanish omelette ($28).
After Formula 1 mania winds down in late November, it takes just over a month to transform the central pit building into Grand Prix Plaza , a mostly year-round visitor center, museum and go-kart track in one. The impressively in-depth F1 X exhibit (from $59) features historic racecars from the 1960s and ’70s, engine models and a replica F1 broadcast center; you can even join a simulated pit crew. Meanwhile, the F1 Drive course winds through 22 turns and overlaps with the actual F1 circuit (from $37 for an eight-minute race). If you want to hang closer to the Strip, the newly opened F1 Arcade at Caesars Palace offers 87 heart-thumping racing simulators ($26 per person for a 30-minute session) — opt for difficulty level 3 unless you want to spend the whole race spinning out.
The LED-wrapped, emoji-winking Sphere has mesmerized visitors since it opened in 2023. But sound is part of what makes “The Wizard of Oz Experience” (through December; tickets from $120) so memorable. A sophisticated network of more than 167,000 sound-producing modules — discreetly hidden behind the enormous, concave screen — means that wherever you sit, it’s as if Judy Garland is singing in your ear. (Producers re-recorded the entire 1939 orchestral score to capitalize on the venue’s audio capabilities.) When the tornado hits, you get a sense of what audiences must have felt nearly a century ago seeing it on the “big screen.”
Bellagio Conservatory & Botanical Gardens
Take a spin around the exquisite Bellagio Conservatory & Botanical Gardens (free), whose intricate, seasonally rotated displays require a team of more than 500 people; the current setup honors Lunar New Year with LED fireworks, human figures woven from thousands of rose petals and raffia palm, and a koi pond. Downstairs, the grandeur continues at Carbone Riviera , whose pearlescent, mosaic-tiled dining room conjures a fairytale villa on the Italian Riviera — or at least Vegas’s idea of one. Sitting on the terrace, the Bellagio fountains’ 40-story-high jets make a splashy backdrop to a meal of yellowtail hamachi in a chili and sesame oil reduction ($44) and seafoam-green pistachio and ricotta chiffon cake ($20).
Bellagio Conservatory & Botanical Gardens
The slick, velvet interiors at the Pinky Ring (free without reservations) hark back to the lounges of yesteryear Vegas, which makes sense when you consider it’s the pet project of Bruno Mars, whose music captures the funk and soul of the ’70s. The space opened in 2024 and has the pop star’s fingerprints all over it: His Grammy awards line the entryway, and one of the cocktails is named the Hooligan, a nod to his own backing band, the Hooligans — one of three rotating acts that perform nightly, playing sets of infectious, vintage R&B hits well into the wee hours. On occasion — particularly when he’s promoting a new album — Mars has been known to show up for impromptu sets with the band. The venue enforces a strict no-camera policy, so even though you’ll be tempted to take a video, play it cool.
Diners at Bar Boheme in the Arts District.
You’d never guess that Egghead , the no-frills take-out counter responsible for what might be Vegas’s most perfect breakfast sandwich, is owned by the same company as mega-clubs like Marquee and TAO — though turnout here can be just as high. To beat the morning rush, show up early (it opens at 7 a.m.) and enjoy the signature Midtown sandwich ($13), slathered in spicy aioli and fried shallots, in relative peace. (Pro tip: Stuff the pecorino-infused cheesy hashbrown, $7, inside the sandwich). Walk it off at the Aria resort’s adjoining mall, the Shops at Crystals , whose interior features public art installations like “Halo,” a series of clear cylinders filled with hypnotic whirlpools. Upstairs, the artist James Turrell’s “Shards of Color” offers playful perspectives on the mall’s dramatic, angular architecture.
Forty-five minutes east of Vegas, the Black Canyon Water Trail winds through the scenic Eldorado Mountains along the Arizona-Nevada border. This stretch of the Colorado River is calm and clear after passing through the Hoover Dam’s 300-ton turbines — perfect conditions for a kayaking trip to the Emerald Cave, a tiny grotto that becomes phosphorescent when the sun hits it just right ( a 1997 photograph on the cover of Arizona Highways magazine turned it into a must-stop for nature lovers). Evolution Tours’ Emerald Cave Express (from $150, four hours) includes pickup and drop-off on the Strip, which means all you have to worry about is sunscreen and a good hat.