article_id: nyt_30
url: https://cooking.nytimes.com/article/lunar-new-year-foods-recipes
title: Lunar and Chinese New Year Recipes for Good Times Ahead
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Traditional dishes, like mandu and Peking duck, often symbolize better luck for the future — and they promise a satisfying meal here and now.
By Genevieve Ko and Allison Jiang
Published Jan. 27, 2022 Updated Feb. 13, 2026
If Jan. 1 didn’t feel like quite the annual reset you were hoping for, you can celebrate now by cooking for the Lunar New Year . (For this Year of the Horse, it begins on Feb. 17.) In China and other Asian countries that recognize the holiday, such as Singapore , Vietnam and South Korea, the festivities can last for two weeks, and the foods often symbolize promises for a better year ahead. But the immediate reward is something delicious to eat, whether you’re preparing a feast or just one dish.
When spoken aloud, the Chinese word for “fish" sounds very similar to the word for “plentiful surplus,” so a whole steamed one is essential on many Chinese New Year tables. You can prepare an elaborate version , or this one from Kenji López-Alt, which is found at many home-style dinners. The highlight is the drizzling of hot oil right at the end, which imparts the fish with the flavors of cilantro, scallions, ginger and soy sauce.
Recipe: Cantonese-Style Steamed Fish
Long noodles symbolize long life, and there are endless variations for the holiday dish beyond classic Cantonese longevity noodles . This Singaporean version, topped with egg ribbons and crisp shallots, comes from Sharon Wee, the author of “Growing Up in a Nonya Kitchen.” She suggests topping it with spicy sambal belacan , a hot sauce made savory with shrimp paste.
Recipe: Nonya Hokkien Stir-Fried Noodles
In this Shanghainese dish worthy of any festive occasion, thick slabs of pork belly are lacquered with a combination of light and dark soy sauces as well as rock sugar to give it a signature reddish glaze. It’s braised for at least three hours until the pork belly is super tender, and in this version from Betty Liu, hard-boiled eggs and tofu knots are added to absorb the rich, caramelly sauce.
Recipe: Hong Shao Rou (Red-Braised Pork Belly)
Sweet rice flour gives this baked dessert a delightfully bouncy chew. In this traditional version from the mother-daughter duo Peggy Wang and Jessica Wang, the batter is sweetened with condensed milk and dotted with red bean paste. Searing the pieces in a skillet is optional, but amplifies the chew and gives the nian gao a delectable crust.
Recipe: Baked Red Bean Nian Gao (Mochi Cake)
With the help of a pressure cooker, you can prepare this fall-off-the-bone Korean short rib braise in a little over an hour. Earthy daikon radish, potatoes and carrots absorb the flavorful soy braising liquid. Serve it with white rice.
Recipe: Pressure Cooker Kalbi Jjim
Dumpling recipes are as bountiful and varied as Asia itself, but this pork and chive version from Helen You is fantastic, whether you’ve never folded a dumpling before or you’re a seasoned pro. Making the dumpling wrappers from scratch is completely worth it, and easier than you think.
Recipe: Pork Dumplings
This southern Vietnamese pickled bean sprout salad from Andrea Nguyen is a great counterbalance to the richer dishes in your Tet or Lunar New Year spread. Bean sprouts, carrots and scallion tops (standing in for Chinese chives) are simply pickled and then piled atop one another for a tangy, crunchy bite.
Recipe: Dua Gia (Pickled Bean Sprout Salad)
A highlight of restaurant banquets, this dish can be made at home, too, especially with streamlined techniques from Kay Chun. It keeps with the tradition of serving whole poultry to signal abundance. But it also tastes more special than chicken and feels like a celebration in both the cooking process and in serving.
Recipe: Peking Duck With Honey and Five-Spice Glaze
The sticky texture and round shape of these Chinese New Year dessert dumplings symbolize family unity, and therefore promise togetherness for the year ahead. With the tender chew of a marshmallow and a nougat-like sesame filling, these rounds are served in a sweet ginger soup. They’re easy to form and freeze well, so you can prepare a big batch at once and eat them throughout the holiday season.
Hot pot, a steaming broth for cooking a bevy of ingredients like meat, seafood and vegetables, isn’t necessarily traditional for Lunar New Year, but gathering around it can evoke a feeling of home. And it’s becoming an especially popular celebratory meal among younger Asians and Asian Americans . This recipe, from Naz Deravian, lets you adapt to your heart’s content, allowing you to mix and match ingredients and amounts. Then, it’s time to join one another and let the pot work its magic. KRYSTEN CHAMBROT
The Korean New Year, Seollal, is commemorated with tteok mandu guk , a steaming soup filled with sticky rice cakes, which one is supposed to eat so they can see their next birthday . Mandu — dumplings — aren’t necessary, but they taste delicious in the broth, especially when made from scratch using this recipe from Julya Shin and Steve Joo.
Pancit, a Filipino stir-fried noodle dish, is often saved for special occasions, so it is well worth a spot on the Lunar New Year table. Known as pancit bihon, this version from Naz Deravian pairs vermicelli rice noodles, carrots, cabbage and chicken or pork, and can be doubled or tripled to serve a crowd. K.C.
Crackly candied nuts and seeds are set out and shared throughout the Lunar New Year season. They’re easy to buy online or in Asian markets, but they’re arguably even easier to make at home following this candy recipe from Andrea Nguyen.
Recipe: Keo Lac Vung (Peanut and Sesame Candy)
Follow NYT Cooking on Instagram , Facebook , YouTube and Pinterest . Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice .
Get recipes, tips and NYT special offers delivered straight to your inbox.
Opt out or contact us anytime. See our Privacy Policy .
New York Times Cooking offers subscribers recipes, advice and inspiration for better everyday cooking. From easy weeknight dinners to holiday meals, our recipes have been tested and perfected to meet the needs of home cooks of all levels. Subscribe now for full access.