article_id: nyt_31
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/podcast/293-scoop-city/episode-189/
title: Scoop City: Inside the NFL
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Get the NFL stories others can’t. Scoop City, hosted by The Athletic’s Senior NFL Insider Dianna Russini, insider James Palmer, and ex-quarterback Chase Daniel, brings unmatched access and expert analysis. From behind-the-scenes scoops to deep dives on the biggest NFL stories, this is the intel every fan needs. New episodes every Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. Hosted on Acast. See acast.com/privacy... more
Why Daniel Jones’ Future Isn’t Settled And Malik Willis Could Cash In
The NFL offseason quarterback carousel is heating up, and the stakes are massive as the new league year approaches. Why did the Indianapolis Colts use the transition tag on Daniel Jones, and could another team still pry him away? Will the Green Bay Packers... more
Eagles Offseason Chaos: A.J. Brown Rumors, Another New System For Jalen Hurts
The NFL Scouting Combine is over, but the real work is just beginning — and today’s Scoop City is all about the conversations from Indianapolis where teams are staring at massive offseason crossroads. Can the Philadelphia Eagles keep their championship window... more
QB Crisis: Would Vikings trade for Kyler Murray or sign Kirk Cousins?
The NFL Scouting Combine is in the books, and now it’s time to check the notes. Scoop City returns to dissect the combine, preview the franchise tag market, and discuss free agency possibilities. The Dallas Cowboys have officially tagged WR George Pickens, but... more
Are the Steelers trapped waiting for Aaron Rodgers to decide his future?
The NFL Scouting Combine is quarterback chaos season — and Scoop City breaks down the biggest dominoes in Pittsburgh, New York, and Cincinnati. Will the Steelers get a faster answer from Aaron Rodgers this time? Do the Jets truly have a quarterback plan, or... more
Will Raiders gamble future and deal Maxx Crosby & what’s A.J. Brown’s future in Philly?
The NFL Scouting Combine is officially trade season — and Scoop City is live in Indianapolis where Maxx Crosby rumors, A.J. Brown questions, quarterback chaos, and a new Giants power structure are dominating the league. Will the Raiders actually move Crosby if he wants out? Are the Eagles quietly preparing for life after A.J. Brown? Where does Kirk Cousins land in a weird QB market? And can the Giants’ John Harbaugh era reshape New York fast enough to maximize Jaxson Dart? James Palmer and Dianna Russini kick things off from Indy, where every elevator ride feels like a Super Bowl reunion and every dinner turns into a front-office summit. They break down why the combine is the league’s negotiation ground zero, how agents float interest without showing their hand, and why next week is when the real movement begins. One of the biggest storylines: Maxx Crosby. The Las Vegas Raiders publicly insist they want to keep their star pass rusher, but teams are already checking in with his camp to gauge interest and price. James and Dianna unpack what a Micah Parsons–level trade package could look like, why Baltimore and Dallas are fascinating fits. Then it’s Philadelphia and the future of A.J. Brown. The Eagles say they want him back, but conversations are happening, and the possibility of a clean, drama-free split is very real. The guys debate whether Devonta Smith is ready for a full-blown leap, why Philly trusts its ability to draft another impact receiver. Quarterback intrigue follows with Kirk Cousins re-entering the offseason spotlight. Minnesota may not be as obvious as it seems with J.J. McCarthy’s development a priority, and teams like Cleveland or others needing veteran stability could emerge. Charlotte Carroll joins to break down the New York Giants’ new era under John Harbaugh, the power structure with Joe Schoen, and what the No. 5 pick could mean — including buzz around Caleb Downs, Malik Nabers’ recovery, and building the right support system for Jaxson Dart. James Boyd closes the show with a deep dive on the Colts’ quarterback dilemma: Daniel Jones leverage, franchise tag strategy, Anthony Richardson’s alarming vision injury, Alec Pierce and Michael Pittman Jr. contract math, and mounting pressure on Chris Ballard. Don’t forget to like, subscribe, and turn on notifications. Get on the debate: Which domino falls first — Maxx Crosby, A.J. Brown, or a surprise quarterback move? Hosted on Acast. See https://acast.com/privacy for more information.
Is Patrick Mahomes enough to lead a bounce back for the Chiefs?
It’s NFL Scouting Combine week — and Scoop City takes you inside the most important evaluation stretch of the offseason, from quarterback interviews to roster shakeups that could reshape 2026. What do the Chiefs do next around Patrick Mahomes? Can the Ravens... more
Cowboys Biggest Offseason Problem: Keep George Pickens in Dallas
NFL free agency season is here, and today’s Scoop City is your roadmap to another wild offseason. Which teams will win the bidding wars for impact talent, where will the quarterback market land, and who’s ready to make the move that changes the 2026 season?... more
Inside John Harbaugh's frantic start at Giants head coach
What was John Harbaugh’s start like as head coach of the New York Giants? Why will Fernando Mendoza succeed in the NFL? And which position group is worth watching at the NFL Combine?

Scoop City takes you inside the Giants’ facility as Harbaugh begins his next... more
Why Fernando Mendoza is the clear No. 1 pick in the 2026 NFL Draft
The NFL's next QB Era begins to take shape on this can’t-miss episode of Scoop City. Are the Las Vegas Raiders ready to build around Fernando Mendoza? Which teams will win the quarterback shuffle, and who could be on the move via trade or free agency? James... more
Patriots Cinderella Story Turns To A Reality Check For a Super Bowl Return
Super Bowl fallout meets offseason urgency on today’s episode of Scoop City. Why is the Seahawks’ championship parade so important to fans in Seattle? How do the Patriots reset after coming up short? Can Baltimore lead the rebound class in 2026? And which... more
Why Klint Kubiak and Tom Brady will be the perfect pair in Vegas
The Las Vegas Raiders have a new head coach in Klint Kubiak. Did Tom Brady and company land the next great offensive mind? Scoop City host James Palmer and The Athletic’s Vic Tafur discuss why the Raiders may have finally landed the coach who will return the... more
How Seahawks, Sam Darnold dominated Patriots in Super Bowl LX
The Seattle Seahawks are Super Bowl champions after defeating the New England Patriots, 29–13. Former NFL QB Chase Daniel and co-host James Palmer examine how the Seahawks were able to capture Super Bowl LX.

Led by a dominant defensive performance, the... more
Super Bowl Preview: Why Vrabel vs Macdonald is the chess match to watch on Sunday
The Super Bowl is just days away, and we’re getting final reports from each team. Michael-Shawn Dugar joins to share updates from the Seattle Seahawks side. What’s the latest with safety Nick Emmanwori? How has Sam Darnold looked? And is Mike Macdonald ready... more
Can the Browns keep Jim Schwartz after hiring Todd Monken + Super Bowl updates with Dianna Russini
What’s the future of the NFL’s Pro Bowl? Is this Super Bowl lacking the usual buzz? What should we take away from Roger Goodell’s press conference? And what’s been the reaction in Cleveland to the Browns hiring Todd Monken?

Scoop City returns with a new... more
Why Drake Maye and Sam Darnold have very different paths to a Super Bowl win
Super Bowl week is officially here, and Scoop City kicks it off with a full-scale breakdown of Seattle Seahawks vs. New England Patriots and the decisions that will decide Super Bowl LX. Can Sam Darnold guide Seattle’s balanced, explosive offense through New... more
Could Drake Maye's shoulder issue throw off New England's Super Bowl prep?
Super Bowl LX is around the corner, and Scoop City’s Thursday Road Trip makes final stops in Seattle and New England before the Seahawks and Patriots head to Santa Clara. Can Seattle’s explosive playmakers and pass rush tilt the game at Levi’s Stadium? Can New... more
Did the Bills & Browns hire the right coaches + Why Bill Belichick got snubbed
Coaches take the spotlight briefly off of the Super Bowl with two more hires and one major snub. Did the Cleveland Browns get it right by hiring Todd Monken? Why did the Buffalo Bills choose Joe Brady — and how much say did Josh Allen really have in the... more
A message from The Athletic
A message regarding changes we're making to how this podcast sounds on The Athletic app.
Castoff to Super Bowl: Sam Darnold's improbable redemption story + Coaching carousel updates
The Seattle Seahawks are headed back to the Super Bowl for the fourth time in their franchise history. Once again, they will face the New England Patriots. Plus, what’s next for the Denver Broncos and Los Angeles Rams after losing their respective conference... more
Why The Super Bowl Favorites Are Not As Safe You Think | Championship Sunday Preview
The NFL is down to Championship Sunday — four teams, two conference titles, and one final step before the Super Bowl. Can the Broncos survive the moment with Jarrett Stidham stepping in under the brightest lights? Are the Patriots ready for the pressure that... more
Why Jarrett Stidham Can Still Take the Broncos to the Super Bowl
Championship Sunday is almost here — but can the Broncos really survive a playoff run with a backup quarterback? What does Jarrett Stidham change (or limit) in Sean Payton’s offense? Plus, what’s the key matchup in Drake Maye vs. Denver’s pressure looks, and... more
What's next for Josh Allen & Buffalo following shocking firing of Sean McDermott?
The Divisional Round delivered chaos, statement wins and a final four nobody is taking lightly. But the biggest shock came after the games — why did the Bills fire Sean McDermott, and what does it mean for Buffalo’s future? Plus, did the Seahawks just prove... more
Why John Harbaugh is the Giants' turning point + The Divisional Round Preview
The Divisional Round is here — and Scoop City is taking you around the league with the biggest questions heading into the weekend. The coaching carousel also had the first domino to fall. How does John Harbaugh landing with the New York Giants reshape the rest... more
Why this crazy coaching cycle will reshape the NFL landscape
Making sense of the wildest coaching carousel in years — what does Mike Tomlin stepping down actually mean for the Pittsburgh Steelers, and which franchise is next to feel the ripple effects? Plus, are we watching a true “team of destiny” run from the San... more
BREAKING: Mike Tomlin steps down from Steelers, what’s next?
The longest tenured head coach in the NFL has stepped down. Mike Tomlin has coached his last game as the leader of the Pittsburgh Steelers. The Athletic’s senior NFL insider Dianna Russini and NFL insider James Palmer discuss Tomlin’s departure. What’s next... more
Eagles Eliminated: Inside the Playoff Collapse and the Offseason Questions
Wild Card Weekend was chaos — and it reshaped how we should think about the postseason with one AFC spot still up for grabs.

What was the most impressive performance of the weekend — a coach winning a chess match, a QB putting on the cape, or a defense... more
What's at stake for Aaron Rodgers and Brock Purdy as the NFL Playoffs Begin?
Wild Card Weekend is here in the NFL — and with it comes chaos, pressure, and opportunity. Which teams are built to survive January football? Which quarterbacks can change their postseason narrative in one game? And which contenders have everything to lose as... more
Ravens Fire Harbaugh: Franchise Turning Point for Lamar Jackson
John Harbaugh’s tenure in Baltimore is over — and the ripple effects are being felt across the entire NFL. Where do the Baltimore Ravens go from here? How does Harbaugh's exit change the coaching landscape? Will there be more coaching changes to come?

The... more
Can Josh Allen and the Bills capitalize on an open AFC + the latest coaching carousel news
The NFL regular season is complete, the playoff field is set, and the coaching carousel is already spinning. On today’s episode of Scoop City, we break down everything that mattered from the Week 18 finish — how the final results locked in seeding, shaped the... more
Will the #2 Seed be Chicago's best chance at a Super Bowl appearance?
What’s truly at stake in Week 18 across the NFL? Which quarterbacks are rising at the perfect time — and which teams have everything to lose heading into the playoffs? Scoop City breaks down the biggest seeding battles, division title races, and QB storylines... more
Will the Eagles offense doom their Super Bowl repeat?
Should the Philadelphia Eagles be concerned about their offense? Did the Buffalo Bills make the right decision by going for two in their Week 17 loss to Philly? Can Brock Purdy carry the San Francisco 49ers to the Super Bowl? What do we need to know about the... more
How 49ers’ Injury-Ravaged Season Has Turned into a Title Run
Who can’t afford to slip up in Week 17? And which quarterbacks are separating themselves as the postseason approaches?

Scoop City returns with James Palmer and Chase Daniel breaking down a loaded NFL slate as the holiday week of football brings massive... more
Inside Drake Maye’s MVP bid & Patriots' thrilling comeback win
Are the New England Patriots the most dangerous team in the AFC? Did the Jacksonville Jaguars make Sunday's biggest statement against the Denver Broncos? Are the Chicago Bears a playoff threat in the NFC? Will the Carolina Panthers capture the NFC South... more
Lions Must Win Out, Steelers Must Hold On — Who Survives Week 16?
The Lions head into the week 16 in must-win territory. How is Detroit is preparing for the final stretch of the season. The Ravens find themselves still with a chance to win the division, will Lamar Jackson get Baltimore back to the postseason. The 49ers... more
Can Sam Darnold change the narrative and take the Seahawks to a Super Bowl?
The Seattle Seahawks and Los Angeles Rams will face off in a highly anticipated Thursday night matchup. Will Sam Darnold bounce back against the Rams? What’s next for the Miami Dolphins and Tua Tagovailoa? Will the Detroit Lions and Baltimore Ravens both make... more
What’s next for the Chiefs after Patrick Mahomes’ season-ending injury?
What’s next for the Kansas City Chiefs after Patrick Mahomes’ ACL tear? Are the Denver Broncos the best team in the league? Are the Green Bay Packers still Super Bowl contenders after losing Micah Parsons for the season? Did Josh Allen re-enter the Super Bowl... more
Will Josh Allen & the Bills halt Drake Make’s MVP run?
Can Josh Allen and the Buffalo Bills prevent the New England Patriots from capturing the AFC East divisional title? Will the Denver Broncos hold off a red-hot Green Bay Packers squad? How crucial is Week 15 for the Los Angeles Rams? Plus, why should fantasy... more
Philip Rivers returns: Kurt Warner discusses the unprecedented signing + Calen Bullock interview
Why did the Indianapolis Colts turn to 44-year-old Philip Rivers? Hall of Fame quarterback Kurt Warner discusses Rivers’ return after last playing five years ago with the Colts. Warner also breaks down the state of the Philadelphia Eagles and what he likes... more
Chiefs playoff hopes are slim, is it time for a revamp in KC?
The Kansas City Chiefs’ playoff hopes are slim. What should the Chiefs do after losing to the Houston Texans? Did Josh Allen’s play against the Cincinnati Bengals put him back in the MVP conversation? Should we be taking the Jacksonville Jaguars more... more
Will Lamar Jackson & the Ravens end Steelers’ playoff hopes?
Can the Baltimore Ravens end the Pittsburgh Steelers’ playoff hopes? Will the Chicago Bears continue their improbable run in Week 14? Can Patrick Mahomes save the Kansas City Chiefs’ season? What should Justin Herbert fantasy owners do with the Chargers... more
How a Win Over the Lions Could Make the Cowboys a Contender
Can the Dallas Cowboys continue their improbable run to a playoff berth or will the Detroit Lions get back on track with a pivotal win on Thursday night? Can the Pittsburgh Steelers actually summit the AFC race despite their offensive issues? And is the New... more
What do the Steelers do Now? Inside Mike Tomlin's Uncertain Future
Are the Pittsburgh Steelers reaching a breaking point following their loss to the Buffalo Bills? Will the Kansas City Chiefs actually miss the playoffs? Do the Philadelphia Eagles have an offensive identity crisis? And what should we make of the Carolina... more
Is Week 13 a pressure cooker for Cowboys, Steelers and Bears?
How important is the Thanksgiving Day matchup for the Green Bay Packers and Detroit Lions? Could the Dallas Cowboys be knocked out of postseason contention this week? Will Caleb Williams and the Chicago Bears upset the Philadelphia Eagles? And will Aaron... more
Are the Los Angeles Rams & Matthew Stafford the best team in the league?
Are the Los Angeles Rams the best team in football? Did the Kansas City Chiefs save their season on Sunday? Did Jerry Jones finally get things right for the Dallas Cowboys? What did we learn about Shedeur Sanders after his first start for the Cleveland Browns?... more
Can Dak and the Cowboys Keep their Season Alive?
Do the Dallas Cowboys have a chance to save their season or will it be too little, too late for Dak and company? Will the Chicago Bears and Caleb Williams actually hang on to the NFC North lead? Can Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs survive a... more
Are the Bears & Caleb Williams actually the NFC North’s best?
Will the Chicago Bears and Caleb Williams actually win the NFC North? Has Minnesota Vikings wide receiver Justin Jefferson been frustrated with their floundering offense? What does Aaron Rodgers’ wrist injury mean for the Pittsburgh Steelers? And will the... more
Will the Chiefs & Patrick Mahomes actually miss the playoffs?
Are the Kansas City Chiefs and Patrick Mahomes in danger of missing the playoffs? How do the Philadelphia Eagles continue to win despite their offensive struggles? Can Josh Allen keep carrying the Buffalo Bills? And what should we make of Shedeur Sanders’... more
Why A.J. Brown is right about the Eagles crisis
Thursday’s episode of Scoop City dives into the growing frustration in Philadelphia after A.J. Brown’s “unapologetic” comments about the Eagles’ struggling offense. Can the Ravens take advantage of the inconsistent AFC North, or could another Lamar Jackson... more
Should the Packers hit the panic button after loss to Eagles?
Wednesday’s episode of Scoop City examines the fallout from the New York Giants' firing of head coach Brian Daboll. Do the Green Bay Packers need to hit the panic button after losing to the Philadelphia Eagles? Which teams are in desperate need of a turnaround... more
Why Giants fired Brian Daboll and what’s next for Jaxson Dart?
Scoop City returns with reactions to the New York Giants' firing of head coach Brian Daboll. The New England Patriots have taken a commanding lead in the AFC East, and now Drake Maye is in the MVP conversation. The Buffalo Bills fell to the Miami Dolphins in... more
Why the Seahawks can win the NFC after trade deadline deal?
Are the Seattle Seahawks contenders in the NFC after their trade deadline acquisition of Rashid Shaheed? Is the New England Patriots offense explosive despite a lack of weapons? Will Matthew Stafford finally win his first MVP? And is Derrick Henry’s high... more
NFL Trade Deadline Drama: Is Quinnen Williams enough to save the Cowboys season?
The New York Jets hit the reset button at the trade deadline. How did the deals for Quinnen Williams and Sauce Gardner go down? What does the Williams trade mean for the Dallas Cowboys? The Seattle Seahawks bolstered their offense by adding Rashid Shaheed. The... more
Did the Chiefs loss to the Bills expose major problems in Kansas City?
Should the Washington Commanders have pulled quarterback Jayden Daniels before his injury? Is there cause for concern for the Kansas City Chiefs after their loss to the Buffalo Bills? How dominant can the Philadelphia Eagles' defense be after adding Jaelan... more
Bills-Chiefs: The Game That Defines Buffalo’s Season
It’s a Halloween Week 9 edition of Scoop City with James Palmer and a stacked lineup of insiders from The Athletic! We’re serving up more treats than tricks as the NFL trade deadline approaches and several playoff contenders face must-win moments. Don’t forget... more
NFL Trade Deadline Drama: Who’s buying, who’s selling, & why some stars aren't moving
Welcome back to Scoop City! James Palmer and The Athletic’s senior NFL insider Dianna Russini are breaking down the midseason stretch of the NFL heading into Week 9 — including which teams are surging, who’s slipping, and what’s still to come at the trade... more
How Jordan Love is turning the Packers into a Super Bowl Favorite
What does Jordan Love and the Packers’ win over the Steelers mean for the NFC? Did Jalen Hurts and the Philadelphia Eagles correct their offensive issues? Should Drake Maye be at the top of the MVP conversation? Did Justin Fields prove the doubters wrong? And,... more
Why Aaron Rodgers vs Packers should be a revenge game
Will Aaron Rodgers and the Steelers spoil the Green Bay Packers’ trip to Pittsburgh? Are the Kansas City Chiefs and Patrick Mahomes back? Which quarterback has impressed Chase Daniel through seven weeks? And which Carolina Panthers running back should crack... more
Did the Giants step back in devastating loss vs. Broncos?
What went wrong for the New York Giants in Denver? The San Francisco 49ers continue to win. Are reinforcements on the way for the Niners? What’s the latest with Washington Commanders QB Jayden Daniels' injury? And, did the Philadelphia Eagles make a statement... more
This is WHY the Eagles will struggle to save their season
🎤 The Philadelphia Eagles are searching for answers, the Los Angeles Chargers might have found a star in Ladd McConkey, and the New York Giants’ new tight-end weapon Theo Johnson is heating up. It’s a jam-packed Week 7 edition of Scoop City with James Palmer... more
WHY Caleb Williams will be the first 4,000-yard passer in Bears history
🎤 What’s the state of quarterbacks across the NFL right now? Can Caleb Williams keep elevating the Chicago Bears’ offense? What coach is the perfect fit for rookie Cam Ward in Tennessee? And what’s really wrong with Josh Allen and the Buffalo Bills offense?... more
Inside the Jets' meltdown: why this season is beyond repair
🎤 Did the Kansas City Chiefs put the rest of the league on notice? Are the Pittsburgh Steelers actually contenders? Can the New York Jets salvage their season? Is the Sam Darnold experiment working for the Seattle Seahawks? And, the Tennessee Titans have... more
Baker Mayfield: The NFL MVP nobody saw coming + Sterling Shepard Interview
🎙️Will Baker Mayfield and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers hold off a surging San Francisco 49ers team? Is Jared Goff quietly leading the most dangerous team in the league? Will Caleb Williams and the Chicago Bears get revenge against Jaylen Daniels and the... more
Why the Chiefs & Patrick Mahomes no longer intimidate teams
🏈 What’s the latest with the Philadelphia Eagles’ offensive struggles? Can Jalen Hurts, Saquon Barkley, and company get in sync on a short week against the New York Giants? Are the Kansas City Chiefs in a must-win game versus the Detroit Lions? Why are they... more
Are Drake Maye & Stefon Diggs the new beast in the AFC East?
The New England Patriots, led by rookie quarterback Drake Maye and star wide receiver Stefon Diggs, pulled off a stunning upset over the Buffalo Bills on Sunday Night Football. Is this the beginning of a changing of the guard in the AFC East? 

The... more
Can Stefon Diggs spoil Josh Allen’s perfect season?
🎤Scoop City returns to take you inside the NFL with host James Palmer. The Athletic's senior writer for the Ravens, Jeff Zrebiec joins us live from the Ravens practice facility in Owings Mills to share the latest on the panic meter in Baltimore after the... more
Does Lamar Jackson’s injury cripple Ravens season?
What does Lamar Jackson’s injury mean for the Baltimore Ravens and the AFC North? Why are the Cleveland Browns handing the keys to Dillon Gabriel? Is Jaxson Dart’s playing style a concern for the New York Giants? Will Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones try to... more
Week 4 Reaction: Cowboys/Packers tie, Lamar Jackson & Malik Nabers injury updates
Are the Dallas Cowboys squandering an MVP-caliber season from quarterback Dak Prescott? What’s the latest on Lamar Jackson’s injury status? Did the New York Giants find their franchise QB in Jaxson Dart? And is there any hope left for the winless Tennessee... more
Could Baker & Bucs hand Saquon & Eagles first loss of 2025?
How will Green Bay Packers star Micah Parsons react in his first game against the Dallas Cowboys? Is the Philadelphia Eagles’ offense too conservative? Could Baker Mayfield and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers hand them their first loss in 2025? Have the Los Angeles... more
Why the Giants’ shift to Jaxson Dart could save their season
Will the move to Jaxson Dart save the New York Giants’ season? What are the statuses of Washington Commanders stars Jayden Daniels and Terry McLaurin? Is the Baltimore Ravens and Kansas City Chiefs Week 4 game a must-win? And, which 0-3 team are you most... more
Has Jalen Hurts, Eagles offense improved after improbable win vs Rams + Justin Herbert continues MVP campaign with win over Broncos
Is the Philadelphia Eagles' offense sustainable for the rest of the season? Should Los Angeles Chargers QB Justin Herbert be the MVP favorite? Did Chicago Bears duo Caleb Williams and Ben Johnson find something in a win over the Dallas Cowboys? And will the... more
Why the Bears’ bet on Caleb Johnson and Ben Johnson will take longer than expected
What are the Chicago Bears doing to correct their 0-2 start under Ben Johnson and Caleb Williams? How has Bo Nix adapted to Year 2 in the Denver Broncos offense? Which running back in your fantasy team's starting lineup should you be concerned about? And will... more
Why Tom Brady in the Raiders’ coaches’ booth could impact you
Why should fans care that Tom Brady was in the Raiders’ coaches' booth? What’s the latest with Washington Commanders QB Jayden Daniels and San Francisco 49ers QB Brock Purdy? And how long will the Minnesota Vikings be without starting QB J.J. McCarthy? Scoop... more
Why Dak Prescott is NOT the problem for the Dallas Cowboys
Scoop City is back with another can’t-miss episode after a wild Week 2 in the NFL. We’re talking The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly — starting with Joe Burrow.

James Palmer, Dianna Russini and Chase Daniel react to the Cincinnati Bengals quarterback's turf toe... more
EXCLUSIVE: Zaire Franklin on why the Colts could surprise this season?
Scoop City is back with another packed episode as Week 2 of the NFL season looms. The San Francisco 49ers will likely be without quarterback Brock Purdy this Sunday against the Saints. Purdy is dealing with toe and shoulder injuries, which means former... more
Why Eagles-Chiefs Super Bowl rematch won't be all about Mahomes and Hurts
Scoop City is back with the latest news and insights from around the NFL. The Kansas City Chiefs are set for a rematch of last year’s Super Bowl against the Philadelphia Eagles. Patrick Mahomes and the Chiefs are hoping to bounce back from a Week 1 loss to the... more
Josh Allen’s Epic Comeback: How Bills stunned Ravens in near-impossible rally
The first Sunday of the 2025 NFL season has come and gone, and Scoop City is the place to be for news and reaction. The crew begins the show by reacting to the insane Sunday Night Football contest that saw the Buffalo Bills defeat the Baltimore Ravens 41-40. more
Brian Baldinger on why DK Metcalf vs Sauce Gardner is a marquee Week 1 matchup
James Palmer is joined by former NFL offensive lineman and film breakdown specialist Brian Baldinger for a Thursday edition of Scoop City.

Palmer and Baldinger react to the latest news out of Denver, where the Broncos and Nik Bonitto have agreed to terms on... more
Why the Josh Allen, Lamar Jackson Week 1 showdown will live up to the hype
It’s an MVP edition of Scoop City! Reigning MVP Josh Allen and the Buffalo Bills are set to host two-time MVP Lamar Jackson and the Baltimore Ravens. To help break it all down, we welcomed The Athletic’s senior NFL writer Mike Silver to share insights on the... more
2025 NFL Season Preview: Will Jalen Hurts, Eagles repeat as champions?
Scoop City is back with a packed episode ahead of the 2025 NFL season. The Athletic’s senior NFL insider Dianna Russini, co-host James Palmer, and former NFL QB Chase Daniel began the show by discussing the Philadelphia Eagles. The group debated whether the... more
Breaking News: Cowboys Micah Parsons traded to the Packers
in a stunning NFL blockbuster, the Dallas Cowboys have traded All-Pro edge rusher Micah Parsons to the Green Bay Packers in exchange for two first-round draft picks and three-time Pro Bowler Kenny Clark. Upon arrival in Green Bay, Parsons will sign a... more
How Jalen Hurts, Eagles can repeat as Super Bowl champions
Scoop City looks ahead to next week's season kick-off game between the Dallas Cowboys and reigning champion Philadelphia Eagles.

Zach Berman, The Athletic's senior Eagles writer, joins James Palmer live from the Eagles' training facility to talk about how... more
Why familiar faces Mike Vrabel, Pete Carroll and Ben Johnson have lofty expectations for 2025
Scoop City returns with another packed episode! The Athletic’s senior NFL insider Dianna Russini details the trade that sent WR Adam Thielen back to the Minnesota Vikings. In return, the Carolina Panthers received two draft picks. Thielen returns to the place... more
Will Terry McLaurin's BIG extension pay off for Commanders?
The Athletic's senior NFL insider Dianna Russini breaks down Washington Commanders wide receiver Terry McLaurin's three-year extension. Chase Daniel adds his perspective on what it means for the Commanders' offense with McLaurin back on the field and how... more
Commanders  Jayden Daniels, Dan Quinn and Zach Ertz on why CULTURE is the difference in DC
Washington Commanders QB Jayden Daniels joins The Athletic's senior NFL insider Dianna Russini on the final day of training camp in Ashburn, VA, to talk about getting ready for the 2025 season.

Jayden talks to Dianna about his growing connection with... more
Why the Cowboys, Micah Parsons may NOT get a deal done before the season opener?
The Dallas Cowboys kickoff the regular season in 15 days against the Philadelphia Eagles. Will the Cowboys and All-Pro DE Micah Parsons agree to a contract extension before then? The Athletic’s Senior NFL Insider Dianna Russini takes you inside the situation... more
Chase Daniel explains why Jaxson Dart NEEDS to be the Week 1 starter
The New York Giants improved to 2-0 in the preseason thanks, in part, to another impressive performance from rookie QB Jaxson Dart. The Ole Miss product completed over 87% of his passes and threw a touchdown against the New York Jets. Former NFL QB Chase... more
Patriots Drake Maye and head coach Mike Vrabel share HOW this new era is different in New England
The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider Dianna Russini joins New England Patriots head coach Mike Vrabel and 2nd year quarterback Drake Maye to talk about taking the team to the next level. 

Dianna talks to coach Vrabel about his time away from coaching and when... more
Vikings Head Coach Kevin O'Connell and Running Back Aaron Jones join Dianna Russini to talk about expectations for 2025
The Athletic’s Senior NFL Insider Dianna Russini sits down for an exclusive conversation with Minnesota Vikings reigning Coach of the Year Kevin O'Connell and Running Back Aaron Jones.



O'Connell shares his thoughts on quarterback JJ McCarthy and his... more
Were the experts right? Find out where the top quarterbacks dropped on the NFL QB Tiers list
James Palmer and Chase Daniel unpack the NFL QB Tiers list with Athletic's Senior NFL Writer Mike Sando.

Kansas City Chiefs Patrick Mahomes and Cincinnatti Bengals Joe Burrow were the only two unanimous Tier 1 quarterbacks on this list. James and Chase ask... more
Bills James Cook ends contract standoff, but what star holdout could be next?
Buffalo Bills RB James Cook ends his hold-in after he agreed to terms on a four-year, $48 million contract extension with $30 million guaranteed. The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider Dianna Russini breaks down how the sides came together and what it means for the... more
How soon could Shedeur Sanders and Jaxson Dart win the starting job?
Week one of the preseason is in the books!The Athletic’s Senior NFL Insider Dianna Russini and former NFL Quarterback Chase Daniel welcome in new co-host James Palmer to the show. James brings decades of sports reporting and NFL coverage to the show with... more
Why Joe Burrow, Shedeur Sanders starting in preseason is a BIG deal
The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider, Dianna Russini and former NFL QB Chase Daniel break down the biggest headlines across the NFL as the first full week of preseason kicks off. Dianna is fresh off a trip to Foxborough, where she watched the New England Patriots... more
Broncos Bo Nix, Patrick Surtain II and Sean Payton talk mile high expectations
Dianna Russini and Chase Daniel kick off our Training Camp tour with a stop in Colorado to visit with the Denver Broncos.

Quarterback Bo Nix breaks down what is different heading into his second season in the NFL. Dianna shares the breaking news with Nix... more
Cowboys and Micah Parsons remain at an impasse, James Cook skips second straight day at Bills practice and Bo Nix talks his sophomore season
Cowboys pass rusher Micah Parsons officially requested a trade from the team while contract talks have stalled. Owner Jerry Jones spoke to reporters this weekend following Parsons request, but tells fans there is no reason for concern. The Athletic’s Senior... more
Justin Jefferson, David Njoku, Khalil Shakir and Chase Brown talk touchdowns | Best of Scoop City S1
Scoop City is revisiting some of our favorite interviews from this past year. The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider, Dianna Russini and former NFL Quarterback Chase Daniel spoke with some best offensive players in the game.  We caught up with Justin Jefferson,... more
Cam Heyward, Fred Warner and Will Anderson Jr on setting the tone | Best of Scoop City Season 1
Scoop City is revisiting some of our favorite interviews from this past year. The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider, Dianna Russini and former NFL Quarterback Chase Daniel spoke with some defensive stars about identity, leadership and what it takes to dominate in... more
Josh Allen, Jordan Love and Drake Maye on leading NFL Franchises | Best of Scoop City Season 1
Scoop City is revisiting some of our favorite interviews from this past year. The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider, Dianna Russini and former NFL Quarterback Chase Daniel spoke with some of the biggest names in the league. We caught up with quarterbacks Josh... more
Sean Payton, Kevin O'Connell and DeMeco Ryans on building a contender | Best of Scoop City Season 1
Scoop City is revisiting some of our favorite interviews from this past year. The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider, Dianna Russini and former NFL Quarterback Chase Daniel spoke with some of the greatest minds In the game. We checked in with three head coaches who... more
Jayden Daniels, Kliff Kingsbury on year one in Washington | Best of Scoop City Season 1
Scoop City is revisiting some of our favorite interviews from this past year. The Athletic's Senior NFL Insider, Dianna Russini, spoke with one of the most intriguing quarterback and coordinator duos in the NFL with Washington Commanders quarterback Jayden... more
Bengals, Shemar Stewart remain in standoff over rookie deal, Aaron Rodgers attends Steelers minicamp
The Cincinnati Bengals and rookie defensive end Shemar Stewart remain at a standoff over language in his rookie contract. Despite not being under contract, the Bengals first-round draft choice was in attendance at Bengals Minicamp until Thursday. The Bengals... more