article_id: nyt_36
url: https://www.nytimes.com/ca/section/movies?page=4
title: Movies
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Maggie Gyllenhaal’s time-shifting, genre-hopping riff on Mary Shelley’s creation stars Jessie Buckley and Christian Bale as outlaws in love.
The latest Pixar movie centers on pudgy beavers and a spunky teenager determined to save their habitat.
Hollywood careers don’t always begin where you expect them to, as Jessie Buckley, Teyana Taylor and Emma Stone could tell you.
Maggie Gyllenhaal’s “The Bride!” imagines an empowered mate for the monster. We look back at other memorable cinematic versions.
Watch a Haunting Theatrical Scene From ‘Hamnet’
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a sequence from her film featuring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal. The movie is nominated for eight Oscars, including best picture.
The ‘Sinners’ Cinematographer Says They ‘All Had a Lot on the Line’
The Oscar nominee Autumn Durald Arkapaw’s ambitious collaboration with Ryan Coogler was also risky, starting with the very heavy large-format cameras.
‘Amora,’ ‘Anorak’ and the Fine Art of Getting Movie Titles Wrong
Staffers at Film at Lincoln Center keep a list of the incorrect movie titles they’ve heard from patrons. That list is very, very long.
By Matthew Huff and Tala Safie
5 Oscar-Nominated Children’s Movies to Stream Now
This month’s picks include the animated feature films that are competing for an Academy Award on March 15.
‘Sinners’ and the Price of Artistic Freedom
Onscreen and behind the scenes, the movie is about the pursuit of liberation, not just for its characters, but also for filmmaking itself.
The past and the present converge in this ravishingly beautiful Italian documentary set in the shadow of Mount Vesuvius.
Milla Jovovich plays a mother whose wrath is unleashed when her daughter is kidnapped in this brooding revenge thriller.
The comedian is building a galaxy of collaborators — Timothée Chalamet, Kai Cenat and Justin Bieber — and telling us how they fit into his future.
By Jon Caramanica and Joe Coscarelli
The actor Chadwick Boseman was a playwright, too. At Shakespeare’s Globe in London, his “Deep Azure” is drawing attention to a lost talent inspired by the Bard.
A remake of the 1986 crowd-pleasing hockey movie, starring Ashton James as a promising young Black player, has a lot more on its mind than the original.
This unclassifiable postmodern spoof, from the comedians Nick Corirossi and Armen Weitzman, is a strange, circuitous trip through California wine country.
A loutish teenager is shown the error of his ways in this absurdly gripping psychological thriller.
By Jeannette Catsoulis
In this documentary, an ad man who treats life with irreverence tries to approach his death from colon cancer the same way.
A backwoods monster with a twisted doll obsession puts a couple through the wringer in this unflinching exploitation fairy tale.
A new Bill Lawrence comedy starring Steve Carell and a new mystery starring Nicole Kidman are among this month’s highlights.
The director Chloé Zhao narrates a sequence from her Oscar-nominated film, featuring Jessie Buckley and Paul Mescal.
Nick Ut, the freelancer long credited for the award-winning photo from the Vietnam War, says a Netflix documentary questioning his work has defamed him.
By Derrick Bryson Taylor
Several promising titles are coming this month, including a new series starring Rachel Weisz and the feature-length sequel to “Peaky Blinders.”
In the stage versions of two beloved books, the most impressive moments emerge when the productions stray from the source material.
A new exhibition in the director’s native Athens showcases his work as a photographer. “I’d like to take a break from making films,” he said. “For now, at least.”
Why the restrained style of Danish, Norwegian and Swedish performers is resonating with moviegoers globally.
Painted torsos, tulip skirts, Jazz Age style and more.
The vampire drama was named outstanding cast and, in an upset, its star won best lead actor. Other victors included Catherine O’Hara for “The Studio.”
The Paul Thomas Anderson film also took the top Directors Guild prize as well, a good sign for the movie’s best picture prospects at the Oscars.
The awards show didn’t mention racist slurs when it told the audience that a man with Tourette’s might make “involuntarily noises.”
With a big budget and a lot to say, the filmmaker is unleashing her inner monster with “The Bride!”
By Lulu Garcia-Navarro
After a period of joblessness when he had to sell his home and cars, the “Scream” actor’s career is booming — whether Quentin Tarantino likes it or not.
This month brings a malign quarterback, a naughty robot hottie and the grim reaper himself.
Whether you’re a casual moviegoer or an avid buff, our reviewers think these films are worth knowing about.
By The New York Times
The director Clint Bentley discusses the conclusion to his film, which stars Joel Edgerton and is an Oscar nominee for best picture.
The franchise’s latest edition ran into trouble on the way to the screen. Here’s what happened.
The Morgan Neville-directed film relies on new and archival interviews to cover familiar ground: the years after the Beatles broke up.
The website known for breaking news about famous deaths and juicy scandals has a name with roots in old Hollywood.
The director Clint Bentley narrates a sequence from his film starring Joel Edgerton.
The move was a stunning development in the long-running corporate battle for the storied media giant.
By Lauren Hirsch, Michael M. Grynbaum and Benjamin Mullin
Ghostface has returned amid a light fog of nostalgia in this reunion for some of the franchise’s most terrified faces, including Neve Campbell’s.
A game-show drama and a documentary valentine to a cult movie queen are among the little treats tucked away on your subscription streaming services this month.
The highly anticipated 1982 sequel failed to meet expectations at the time but has since charmed an adoring following with its ambitious dance numbers and nonstop ear worms.
These three connected stories about the whole of human history can’t quite sustain the necessary emotional heft.
Anderson .Paak directs and stars alongside his real-life son in this film, which offers sometimes charming, if somewhat sterile pleasures.
A scrappy Russian American seamstress from West Hollywood competes in a fashion design reality show in this clever and earnest indie comedy.
Werner Herzog’s new documentary about the hunt for elephants in Angola focuses less on the animals and more on the pursuers.
Jessica Chastain plays a wealthy philanthropist obsessed with an undocumented dancer in this chilly drama.
By Jeannette Catsoulis
The awards organization and the broadcaster have ordered separate investigations into what led to airing the slur, which was shouted involuntarily during Sunday’s ceremony.
This month offers a tribute to the prolific filmmaker who died last week at 96 and has a plausible claim to being the greatest documentarian who ever lived.
A roundup of the latest reviews, releases and more. Every Friday, stay on top of Critics’ Picks, blockbusters and independent films.
Get recommendations on the best TV shows and films to stream and watch.