article_id: nyt_42
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/person/courtney-love?page=9
title: Courtney Love
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The bassist and photographer who logged time in Hole and Smashing Pumpkins unpacks one of the most creative and chaotic times of her life in a new memoir.
By Melena Ryzik and Lucia Bell-Epstein
It’s a great time to learn about copyright law!
By Anna P. Kambhampaty
Batsheva Hay channeled Courtney Love for her New York Fashion Week presentation. Then she invited her to see it all.
Monday night’s parties included photography with W magazine, dinner with Purple magazine and clubbing with Jeremy Scott.
Monday night’s parties included photography with W magazine, dinner with Purple magazine and clubbing with Jeremy Scott.
Hedi rumors, Dolce & Gabbana hijab and J.W. Anderson on Grindr.
Brett Morgen has followed up his documentary, “Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck,” with a collection of songs gleaned from more than 200 hours of tape.
Vanessa Williams, Loudon Wainwright III and Rita Moreno will take part in the 17th installment of the performance series starting in January.
An article on a rising actor is part of a long, if infrequent, tradition of throwing out the usual niceties of the celebrity profile genre.
The singer and actress used Twitter and Instagram to describe being held hostage during a strike by taxi drivers opposing the transportation service’s efforts to expand.
Anthony Bozza, who was hired in 2010, has filed suit in federal court, saying that Ms. Love failed to complete payment for his work.
“Rapture, Blister, Burn,” a play by Gina Gionfriddo, will run through May 3 at the Dreamcatcher Repertory Theater in Summit, N.J.
This movie about the Nirvana leader, who committed suicide in 1994, reflects years of rummaging through Cobain’s archives, with the family’s permission.
In a new documentary, the director Brett Morgen aims to dispel myths surrounding Nirvana’s famous frontman.
The event, an evening of “music, verse and funny people,” was put together by the music producer Hal Willner.
When the Italian designers Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana criticized nontraditional families and I.V.F. in a magazine interview, it caught the attention of the singer Elton John and sparked anger online.
Smaller historical institutions are reframing their core holdings to engage newer, younger audiences.
The session is one of several events added to the Tribeca Film Festival, including the New York premiere of a documentary on Kurt Cobain.
T plucks the best shoes right off the runway. Today’s pick: Far East-inspired texture in a ladylike palette.
By Malina Joseph Gilchrist
In “Kansas City Choir Boy,” starring Courtney Love and Todd Almond at HERE Arts Center, a musician reflects painfully on a former relationship.
Courtney Love performs “All I Ever Wanted” from “Kansas City Choir Boy,” a song cycle about a singer and her musician boyfriend.
Ms. Love performs the song “All I Ever Wanted” from “Kansas City Choir Boy,” with the show’s composer, Todd Almond, on piano, and Eric Allen on cello. The show is at Here Arts Center from Jan. 8-17.
Erik Piepenburg and Erik Braund
Courtney Love’s latest and thoroughly unexpected gig is the music-theater piece “Kansas City Choir Boy.”
Courtney Love will star in “Kansas City Choir Boy” at the Prototype: Opera/Theater/Now festival.
The museum is showing a career-spanning survey of the artist’s work, much of it inspired by Hollywood — a subject he now says he’ll be moving away from.
The collection shown tonight by Hedi Slimane, his second women’s ready-to-wear since taking over the house of Yves Saint Laurent label (which he renamed Saint Laurent), will be as divisive as his first.
Twitter’s ability to connect celebrities directly to their audiences has made it the garbage dump of choice for their every opinion and non sequitur.
By giving the famous and those who aspire to be an unfettered soapbox from which to spout, Twitter has become a platform for celebrities’ public spats.
Eric Erlandson, the guitarist who founded Hole with Courtney Love and helped create hit albums like “Pretty on the Inside” and “Live Through This,” will publish a book of his reflections on rock ‘n’ roll, drug abuse and the loss of Kurt Cobain called “Letters to Kurt.”
The “Albert Nobbs” afterparty featured cross-cultural who’s who that included Dick Cavett, Patti Smith, John Leguizamo, the Scissor Sisters and Gabourey Sidibe.
The boldface names at yesterday’s event by the Human Rights Campaign spoke about what commitment means to them.
The book is due out next fall.
Frances Bean Cobain, the daughter of Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love, grabbed the attention of the fashion world with a series of Web photos.
Ms. Love sustained a slight burn on her hand in the fire, which officials said was probably caused by a candle and which damaged some curtains and bed linens.
The ’80s theme was laid on thick at an auction and party for the public arts group Creative Time on Thursday night.
The Pretty Reckless release “Light Me Up; Jamie Woon offers “Moonwriting”; Monchy & Nathalia have a self-titled album; Sonny and the Sunsets offer “Hit After Hit”; and Jessie J has “Who You Are.”
Courtney Love, Eric Erlandson, Melissa Auf der Maur and Patty Schemel will gather at the Museum of Modern Art for a screening of “Hit So Hard,” a documentary about Ms. Schemel.
The singer and actress is paying $27,000 a month for a town house on West 10th Street, brokers said.
The troubled singer Courtney Love hopes to get by with a little help from her friends. It may not be enough.
The singer and actress Courtney Love hopes for a comeback with a new album with her band, Hole.
Courtney Love and her new lineup of Hole barely engaged the audience during a concert at Terminal 5 on Tuesday.
Courtney Love’s new album “Nobody’s Daughter” may be the vehicle for an improbable comeback.
The bounds of Twitter etiquette are being tested as complaints are becoming more commonplace.
Courtney Love, the widow of Kurt Cobain of Nirvana, has been sued by a management firm that accuses her of failing to pay commissions for the partial sale of her share of the band’s publishing catalog.
Compiled by Julie Bloom
Celebrities enter and leave the Manhattan criminal court in different and interesting ways.
It’s hard to know who the audience might be for the documentary oddity “Kurt Cobain About a Son,” but I bet its subject would have hated it.
When a London agency featured images of Kurt Cobain and other dead rock stars in ads for Dr. Martens footwear, it and its client got burned.
Nirvana’s power owed a lot to its self-divisions: tortured lyrics, catchy tunes.
The Louvre and the Musée d’Orsay go Hollywood, students lose “Borat” suit, Princes plan pop concert to honor Princess Diana, Nicole Richie arrested and more culture news.
By Campbell Robertson
Emily Nussbaum reviews book Dirty Blonde: The Diaries of Courtney Love, edited by Ava Stander; photo (M)
A collection of the bits and pieces of Courtney Love’s life so far.
Courtney Love is releasing a new album, “How Dirty Girls Get Clean,” sometime in the spring.
Courtney Love attends book signing and party in New York City for her new memoir Dirty Blonde: The Diaries of Courtney Love; photo (M)
Resurgence of Gen-X grunge style is evident in clothes and makeup that were emblematic of early 1990's; photos (M)
Gen-X style is back-with a vengence.
Ben Sisario article speculates on move by Courtney Love, widow of rock star Kurt Cobain, to sell portion of her share of publishing rights to band Nirvana's music; notes recent announcement that Cobain action figure would go on sale; photo (M)
A Bessies bow for New York Dance, Michael Jackson speaks out, winning films at Toronto Festival and more culture news.
Compiled by Lasharah S. Bunting
Now We Feel We Really Know Her       When the raven-haired SARAH SILVERMAN appeared on the Comedy Central roast of PAMELA ANDERSON -- JIMMY KIMMEL, whom Ms. Silverman dates, was the host -- Ms. Silverman wore a modest dress that reminded us of something a bat mitzvah girl circa 1980 might wear. But oh, the raunchy jokes that came from that innocent ponim!      Ms. Silverman is at the Toronto Film Festival now with her new film, ''Jesus Is Magic,'' and we wanted to do a phone interview. Her publicist suggested e-mail. So we shot off some questions and asked Ms. Silverman to answer as many as she wanted but to please avoid four-letter words so our editors wouldn't keel over clutching their chests.
Arts, Briefly column; Courtney Love, appearing in Los Angeles Superior Court, admits using drugs in violation of her probation and is ordered into 28-day rehab program; photo (S)
Compiled by Ben Sisario
Virginia Heffernan reviews Comedy Central Roast of Pamela Anderson; photo (M)
By Virginia Heffernan
Courtney Love Is Clean And Sober     ''I've been clean and sober for a year!'' COURTNEY LOVE announced to the photographers gathered outside Sony Studios in Los Angeles. Many of the celebrity journalists began clapping.     Ms. Love had kissed many of them as she made her away along the red carpet, to the point that her lipstick was smeared around like a giant red thumbprint; her hair, which looked great when she stepped out of her Rolls but which she continually ran her hands through, was pointing in several directions by the time she made this little speech.
By Campbell Robertson
Oh Biffie! I Simply Adore Those Pasties!       We were standing outside the Starbucks in East Hampton this weekend, watching, learning from PAULY SHORE as he engaged in amorous pursuits.      ''Hey ladies,'' he said in his suntan-lotion accent to a trio of giggling young women on the sidewalk. ''Where's the party tonight?''
By Campbell Robertson
Saturday Night Live, once forum for political humor, shifts its focus to celebrity foibles, ceding considerable ground to popular rivals like The Daily Show With Jon Stewart; some of show's devoted viewers agree and are losing interest; producer Lorne Michaels warns against wallowing too deeply in nostalgia for show's formative years; says his basic philosophy in running SNL has not changed; photos (L)
THE remarkable thing about the Shepards, a mother-and-daughter team who are New York's most distinctive courtroom artists, is that they ended up in a job where they have to sit still and in silence for large parts of the day. They are movers. And they are talkers.     Around lunchtime a couple of weeks ago, they were at full speed, finishing a job for CNBC in Brooklyn Federal Court. The Shepards, highly visible characters in all of New York's courthouses for more than a decade, had arrived late and had to barge in during a plea hearing. As they were rushing out afterward, Andrea, the daughter, who has straight blond-brown hair, came across Barry Slotnick, a tall, bearded lawyer who appeared in the scene she had just drawn. ''Barry!'' she called out. ''You're looking good! Could you give me your card again? We're having a show.''
Courtney Love pleads guilty to disorderly conduct in case that began during her rock concert at Plaid nightclub in Greenwich Village in March, when she pitched microphone stand into crowd, hitting fan, Gregory Burgett; Manhattan Criminal Court Judge Melissa Jackson orders Love to pay Burgett's $2,236 medical bill, keep out of trouble for one year and participate in drug treatment program; Love photo (M)
Profile of and interview with Ric Ocasek, member of 1980's band the Cars, who has become valued producer and mentor to young musicians; Ocasek's latest project is album This Island by band Le Tigre; photos (M)
By Elisabeth Vincentelli
Profile of and interview with Canadian rocker Melissa Auf der Maur, former member of Hole and Smashing Pumpkins who is touring with her own show and band promoting her self-titled record; photos (M)
Courtney Love, punk rock icon, is taken to hosptial in New York City for undisclosed illness; photo (M)
Joyce Wadler column reports on party in New York City for Janet Jackson and her new alblum; interviews Courtney Love; also reports on opening of play, Twentieth Century, where she interviews celebrities during intermission (M)
Kelefa Sanneh reviews performance by Courtney Love at Bowery Ballroom; photo (M)
Singer Courtney Love ends day of bizarre behavior in New York with arrest on assault charges, for allegedly hitting audience member with microphone stand during performance at club Plaid; her day also includes standing on David Letterman's desk on television set and baring her breasts to him and trying to talk her way onto stage at Irving Plaza; photos on Letterman show and at Plaid (M)
Neil Strauss reviews new album by Courtney Love; photos (M)
Interview with Dave Grohl, former member of band Nirvana, about his dispute with Courtney Love over songs to be included on Nirvana greatest hits album, and resulting lawsuit and its settlement; says young rock bands of today are savvy about making it, in way that would have been ridiculous back in days of Nirvana; photo (M)
Pop Scene column: Singer Courtney Love, after filing lawsuit and threatening to expose record company contracts and accounting practices, settles suit against Universal Music Group; Universal frees Love from musical obligations, giving her rights to unreleased recordings by former band, Hole; resolution of Love's lawsuit also means new releases of recordings by band Nirvana, the first a career retrospective due on November 12; photo (M)
Courtney Love, rock singer turned actress, is close to settling breach-of-contract lawsuit with Universal Music Group; is expected to be released from contract, to drop several claims against Universal that she made in her lawsuit and to share rights to certain projects involving Nirvana, band started by her late husband Kurt Cobain; Vivendi Universal sued Love and her band Hole for breach of contract, saying she had tried to terminate seven-year contract without delivering five recordings still owed to company (M)
A pointless little kidnapping thriller starring Kevin Bacon and Courtney Love as Joe and Cheryl Hickey, a pair of extortionists who have devised what they imagine to be a quick, foolproof moneymaking system. Since it has already gone like clockwork four times (each abduction netting them a cool quarter of a million dollars without a hitch or an injury), they are unprepared when the fifth couple on their hit list, an anesthesiologist and his wife (Stuart Townsend and Charlize Theron), fight back. The film is a reasonably efficient mechanism, but it offers few surprises and finds its stars slumming in territory they should have avoided. "Trapped" arrives at a moment when the headlines are full of child abductions. Its release couldn't have been more poorly timed. — Stephen Holden
More than dozen articles from never-published final issue of Talk magazine have been revived in other publications; Entertainment Weekly and The Face, British magazine, ran portions of cover story about Courtney Love; other articles have or will appear in Vanity Fair, Rolling Stone, Details magazines; photo (S)
Ten years after release of Nirvana's Nevermind album, legacy of band is being threatened by infighting between Dave Grohl and Krist Novoselic, surviving members of band, and Courtney Love, widow of Curt Cobain, over control of music; Novoselic and Grohl wrote open letter to Nirvana fans and filed answer and counterclaims (in Superior Court of Washington State) to Love's lawsuit filed in May against them; open letter concerns planned release of Nirvana boxed set this Christmas; Grohl and Novoselic say set never came out because of Love; in June, Love won temporary injunction to block song, You Know You're Right, written months before Cobain's suicide, from appearing on boxed set; Love is seeking to dissolve Nirvana LLC, agreement between herself, Grohl and Novoselic; agreement calls for major decisions relating to Nirvana to be unanimous and all profits split equally; Neil Young's new song, Let's Roll, tribute to heroism of passengers who overpowered hijackers aboard United Airlines Flight 93, is becoming fast hit; song is getting heavy play on rock stations; Young has no plans to release it as single, but it is included in next album; photo of Young (M)
Some 150 spectators mingle with recording artists, including Courtney Love, LeAnn Rimes and Don Henley, attending hearing before California Senate committee on state law that binds artists to long-term contracts, which they say give too much power to recording companies who distribute their music, and ignore recording industry executives; photo (S)
LeAnn Rimes, Don Henley, Courtney Love and other singers spar with music industry executives as Select Committee on Entertainment Industry holds hearing on stringent recording contracts; panel is examining part of California labor code that gives music companies right to keep artists under contract or sue them if they do not deliver specified number of recordings; many artists complain it is nearly impossible to deliver number of albums required--as many as seven in standard seven-year contract--and that as result they are forced to remain under contract or risk legal action (M)
THE Florida recount is back in the news. And I may be the only person in the nation who is thrilled.
Neil Strauss Pop Life column on Eminem's offensive lyrics; photo; this year's inductees to Rock and Roll Hall of Fame include Michael Jackson, Paul Simon, Aerosmith, Ritchie Valens and the Flamingos; Courtney Love demands Cleveland museum return items belonging to herself and her husband, Kurt Cobain (M)
Courtney Love and other musicians are siding with Napster, free Internet music-swapping service, in battle with recording companies; Love and her band, Hole, are seeking to end their contract with Geffen Records; they and others believe Internet offers them alternative to burdensome contracts that give a large cut of earnings to record companies; label executives say they offer musicians valuable marketing and promotion and contend few musicians would survive for long without a label deal; some musicians concur, and industry is apparently dividing into separate camps; photo (M)
At the Movies column; director Bob Gosse and Courtney Love discuss filming independent feature Julie Johnson; photo; Canadian filmmaker Peter Wintonick comments on Cinema Verite: Defining the Moment, his documentary tribute to 1960's filmmaking movement (S)
Ann Powers reviews performance by Courtney Love with band Hole at Roseland; photo (M)
Courtney Love forms production company, Epitome Productions, and signs first film project, I Think We're Alone Now; Village Roadshow Pictures is 18 months old, and two of its first three releases have been successes: The Matrix and Analyze This; Bruce Berman, chairman of company, acknowledges this might be beginner's luck; photo; writer Paul Rudnick's new film, Isn't She Great, is about life of Jacqueline Susann, author who wrote popular steamy novels of 1960's and who Rudnick sees as personifying cult of celebrity; photo (M)
Jon Pareles reviews new album by Courtney Love's band Hole; photo (M)
Colorful, absorbing trip of a documentary.