article_id: nyt_48
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/jancee-dunn?page=9
title: Jancee Dunn
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Personal health is a vast topic, so I write about a wide variety of subjects, from fitness to nutrition to mental health. I have a special interest in the science of emotion and in relationships of all kinds. I have written about my extended family for many years; at this point, they are resigned to it and will dutifully provide quotes or background information.
I have been writing about health and science for more than 20 years. I first wrote for The Times in 2001. Before that, I was an editor at Rolling Stone for over a decade, a sex columnist at GQ, and I edited a column about ethics and etiquette for O, The Oprah Magazine. I am the author of nine books, among them “Hot & Bothered: What No One Tells You About Menopause.” I live in New Jersey with my husband and daughter.
I am committed to upholding The Times’s extensive ethics policy . Whenever I contact people for information, I identify myself as a reporter for The Times. I strive to be accurate in my reporting and to carefully evaluate all scientific data.
Email: well_newsletter@nytimes.com
Instagram: @janceedunn
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
Start a conversation. Research suggests you won’t regret it.
Well staffers share how they weather the “enough already” part of the season.
For Valentine’s Day, relationship experts share a few ways to show our partners that we care.
This “fifth pillar of health” is often dismissed as entertainment.
It can prompt you to do the right thing, but it can also drag you down.
Read this before you pop that gummy.
Humor is good for your health.
If you’re questioning your relationship with alcohol, here’s what to look for.
Whether you’re looking to argue better or have a little more fun with your partner, we’ve got you covered.
By Jancee Dunn and Catherine Pearson
It’s time to look back — and forward.
Readers share the small, practical acts of kindness that made a difference.
Experts share tips for managing tricky family dynamics.
The star of “Mary Poppins” and “Chitty Chitty Bang Bang” still hits the gym and touches his toes.
Does anyone in your family even like the green bean casserole?
Here’s how to navigate sugar season.
Take back the conversation with these tips.
A handful of pro players are choosing careers in nursing after leaving the football field.
Yes. Here’s how to cope.
They aren’t all sudden or intense, experts says.
You probably don’t need more time.
Even if you’re diligent about caring for your teeth, you might be overlooking your gums.
You’re both rattled. You feel out of sorts. Here’s how to get back on track.
In her new book, the actress turns her acid wit to Hollywood’s darker side and her own personal struggles.
These techniques can help you handle the ups and downs of daily life.
Stay out of the emergency room with these tips.
Americans are reading for pleasure less. Let’s get back in the habit.
Travel experts share their best tips for ensuring your trip is actually relaxing.
It’s simple, but it isn’t easy.
Excessive people pleasing can trap you in a cycle of insecurity. Here’s how to break the habit.
Orthopedists share their best tips.
A long life doesn’t matter much if you don’t enjoy it.
We asked readers for the unconventional ways they remember those they’ve lost. Over 800 of you replied.
It’s all in the framing.
These expert tips on how to argue, communicate and grow closer with the people you love could make for stronger bonds.
By Catherine Pearson and Jancee Dunn
It only takes a few minutes to boost your mood.
Noisy eating, clapping when a plane lands — experts explain how to handle sudden feelings of disgust.
An international disaster adviser shares advice for going through a difficult time.
You don’t need to hit 10,000 daily steps to reap benefits.
Here’s what you should do instead.
There are ways to make it less miserable.
How well do you really know your mother? Call her and find out.
You have to keep two things in check, say experts
Tips from experts, astronauts and Cher on finding bliss.
The experts also offered advice on what you can do instead.
The good-news blues are real.
Hint: It doesn’t involve “inbox zero.”
Many of us have done it, but that doesn’t make it right, experts say.
Avoid a world of hurt with these four tips.
Your relationship may be solid, but is it playful?
We asked experts about what’s normal — and what’s not.
It makes spring cleaning a little easier.
Everyone responds differently, experts say, and there’s no wrong way to feel.
We asked emergency physicians what lessons they’d learned from their job.
Experts shared five strategies to make things easier.
A meaningful gift doesn’t have to cost a lot.
Sometimes you can just change them, the psychologist Ethan Kross argues in his new book, “Shift.”
Hospice workers share their insights.
Lori Gottlieb shares relationship tips from 15 years of clinical practice.
Add to your plate — don’t subtract.
Today we’re looking at ultraprocessed foods in the wild.
Today’s challenge includes recipes you can try.
Today’s challenge involves using the five senses.
Why don’t Cheetos taste like cheese? As part of The Times’s January Challenge, Well columnist Jancee Dunn and flavor scientist Dr. Arielle Johnson investigate why ultraprocessed foods differ so much from their whole food counterparts — and why they can be addictive.
By Jancee Dunn and Theodore Tae
Today, you’ll go grocery shopping without leaving your seat.
By Jancee Dunn and Alice Callahan
Take a virtual shopping trip to learn more about what’s on grocery store shelves.
The science behind Well’s ultraprocessed foods challenge.
Our staff — and listeners — on the best advice of 2024.
By Melissa Kirsch, Philip Galanes, Jancee Dunn, Daniel Jones, Sara Curtis, Kate LoPresti, Wendy Dorr, Diane Wong, Daniel Powell, Elisheba Ittoop, Marion Lozano, Sophia Lanman and Daniel Ramirez
These simple tips will set you up for a delicious year.
You don’t need a green thumb to reap the benefits.
Families with holiday rituals are more likely to gather. So here’s to “Ribsgiving,” stinky gifts and fried oysters for Christmas breakfast.
All you need is 30 seconds to prep.
Here’s what specialists in aerospace medicine want you to know about air travel.
It’s not all dark mornings and bulky coats.
Traffic jams and train delays happen, but they don’t have to ruin your trip.
We have some useful tips from experts. But no worries if you’re not ready!
Some words hurt more than they help.
There’s still time to salvage it.
Teasing can actually strengthen relationships, experts say. But sometimes things go too far.
Expecting the worst from others is actually bad for our health, experts say.
But there are ways to avoid them.
Common habits like storing pills in your medicine cabinet can reduce their effectiveness, experts say.
Reaching out takes less time than you think.
Those good vibes seem to disappear immediately, but it’s possible to extend them.
Experts share strategies for connecting that actually work.
Scientists aren’t exactly sure why we have dreams, but they may help us rehearse situations and work through emotions. See how much you know.
Are they deal-breakers? Here is how to tell.
Here’s how to shut down “predatory curiosity.”
Every second counts, experts say.
Whether you want to get comfortable talking about sex or become an ace apologizer, these tips are for you.
By Jancee Dunn and Catherine Pearson