article_id: nyt_5
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7010771/2026/02/03/mlb-starting-pitcher-rankings-2026-fantasy-baseball/
title: Ranking the top 2026 MLB starting fantasy pitchers with Stuff+ powered projections
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
From left to right: Shohei Ohtani, Tarik Skubal, Cristopher Sánchez Illustration: Demetrius Robinson / The Athletic; Photos: Dilip Vishwanat, Emilee Chinn, Elsa / Getty Images
Here’s a story about pitching in today’s game.
In 2020, baseball introduced a new tracking system that allowed teams to better track how the seams were actually spinning through space. Hawk-Eye’s camera system gave analysts new data, and that improved teams’ pitch quality metrics instantly, specifically for pitches where the movement and spin interacted in interesting ways. Seam-shifted wake was a newly understood phenomenon, and this new data, along with that understanding, produced stuff models that pointed prominently to a little-used pitch type as being undervalued.
That pitch type? The sweeper.
Pitchers had been throwing frisbee sliders before, but now teams could figure out what specific properties were best, and use that information to better scout and develop players. Not surprisingly, the league saw an influx of sweepers. Every year from 2020 to 2023, another 10,000 more sweepers were thrown during the season. It was the hot new pitch type .
But with every additional sweeper thrown, the hitters got better at seeing and hitting the pitch. The batting average on the pitch went up from .183 to .215 from 2020 to 2025, the slugging from .280 to .364. The chase rate went down. The in-zone swing rate went up. Hitters were being trained by seeing this pitch type more, and they responded.
Now pitchers are moving on to the kick-change, it seems.
Stuff+ is a model that’s supposed to tell teams “what inherent qualities make a pitch good.” But that’s a moving target in a league that’s constantly evolving, as the story of the sweeper shows. So those with pitch quality models are faced with decisions as the league moves forward — how much of the old data should be used to train today’s stuff metrics? How relevant is what happened in 2020 to the league in 2026?
To that end, Stuff+ has removed 2020 and 2021 from the training set for the model and added 2025, so that the question that Stuff+ is answering is “what makes a pitch good, now ?” That reduces the metric’s power as a historical artifact, but it helps the model retain its ability to predict. Which is really where it shines anyway — a handful of pitches can tell you a lot about their quality, giving scouts, teams and fantasy players a jump on the competition with small-sample pitchers. Once the sample is larger, projections, which use and regress on-field results, become a more powerful weapon.
So, Stuff+ has been refreshed. Here are some of the biggest leaps forward in new Stuff+, which will be up on the pages of FanGraphs shortly.
There are seven lefties on this list, so this could be an adjustment to the fact that lefty pitchers are seeing so much success right now . Otherwise, it’s relatively hard to classify this group and identify exactly why the Stuff+ model likes these guys more now, but at least in the case of Joey Cantillo, this is a good directional change that matches the scouting grades on his pitches better.
It’s not all good news. Sweepers, as a pitch type, saw their Stuff+ reduced as batters improved against them. So some pitchers lost Stuff+ in the update.
All righties, and more than a few of them who prominently use sweepers. In the past, Luis Severino’s overall Stuff+ grade was propped up by that pitch, in particular.
For the purposes of these rankings, Stuff+ by itself is most relevant to the freshest-faced hurlers in the group. Then I folded in things like strikeout-minus-walk rate, injury history (with Jeff Zimmerman’s injury grades shown), command (by Location+) and on-field results (thanks to Jordan Rosenblum’s OOPSY projections, which include a regressed Stuff+ under the hood). Last year’s ERA is somewhere on my spreadsheet but I generally don’t care what it was, because research has shown it’s not really predictive. We’ll be talking about these ranks all week on the Rates & Barrels podcast , with guests like Zimmerman and Rosenblum to help explain their participation.
My general bias is toward 15-team leagues with nine pitcher spots and no injury-list spots. This bias means I’ll sometimes favor quantity over injury-risk quality. You’ll find some injury-risk tiers in the rankings — if you have IL spots in your league, you’ll want to mentally move those guys up a bit. Because of the different rules when it comes to roster sizes and settings, you may want to look in the 70s, 80s and low 100s for sleepers, depending on the size of your league. Buy the younger guys over the older guys in those areas if you’re in a shallower league. There are some prospects and young guys who aren’t in their team’s top five here, but not many, so if you can handle waiting, move them up a little. In the blurbs, I tried to point out the cases where a player might not be useful in a certain type of league. Here’s a Google doc with more pitchers in it, though after 150, they aren’t really ranked as much as sorted and stashed for the future.
It’s difficult trying to put together one ranking for all sorts of different leagues, but at least this list will show you which pitchers I like, and which I think will regress. Happy hunting!
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Eno Sarris is a senior writer covering baseball analytics at The Athletic. Eno has written for FanGraphs, ESPN, Fox, MLB.com, SB Nation and others. Submit mailbag questions to esarris@theathletic.com. Follow Eno on Twitter @ enosarris