article_id: nyt_55
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7065794/2026/02/24/bruins-morgan-geekie-skills-coach/
title: How a skills coach helped turn Bruins’ Morgan Geekie from a scratch into a top NHL goal-scorer
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Morgan Geekie has 65 goals in 122 games since Nov. 12, 2024 — tied for second in the NHL. Gregory Shamus / Getty Images
BOSTON — In the summer of 2022, Morgan Geekie’s NHL identity was shapeless.
He was 23 years old, coming off a season in which he scored seven goals for the Seattle Kraken, who had claimed him in the expansion draft a year earlier from the Carolina Hurricanes, who drafted him in 2017.
Geekie averaged 12:36 of ice time per game for the Kraken and was a healthy scratch twice in their last seven games.
He did not kill penalties. He averaged 1:22 of power-play time per game, most of it on Seattle’s second unit. Things like a 12-game goal-scoring slump, a five-alarm fire now, were just a matter of life.
“I wasn’t really much of anything,” Geekie said. “I was just more of somebody that was just there to fill a role.”
Geekie started his summer training in Seattle. He had a conversation with Jake Bean, a former Hurricanes teammate. Bean was about to begin on-ice work in Calgary with Jonathan Sigalet, his skills coach.
Bean suggested Geekie attend. Geekie was not familiar with Sigalet, a former Boston Bruins draft pick who played in one NHL game in 2006-07.
Geekie decided to go. He had nothing to lose and was open to anything and anybody who could steer his career toward something of worth.
Geekie, now 27, leads the Bruins with 32 goals. His 103.03 mph one-timer on Nov. 11 ranks as this season’s second-hardest NHL shot. He is averaging a career-high 17:26 of ice time per game.
What seemed to be an aberrational 22.0 percent shooting percentage in 2024-25 was just a warmup. This season, Geekie, with his Bauer Vapor Flylite , is up to 24.8 percent. Since the beginning of the 2024-25 season, the Bruins’ No. 1 left wing has 65 goals, tied with David Pastrnak atop the roster — and 13th in the NHL.
Geekie also didn’t score in the first 16 games of 2024-25, so if the time span is narrowed, the results are even more drastic. Since Nov. 12, 2024, Geekie is tied with Nathan MacKinnon for second in the NHL in goals (65 in 122 games).
All of this put the native of Strathclair, Manitoba, on Hockey Canada’s long list for the Olympics.
It is quite a Point B, considering how distant Geekie’s Point A was four seasons ago.
“I didn’t see that goal scoring in him, let’s put it that way. I didn’t really see that,” said Bruins coach Marco Sturm, remembering his first impressions of Geekie from Kraken games against the Los Angeles Kings in 2021-22, when Sturm was a Kings assistant. “I saw a young kid still trying to figure out how to play in this league. If you would have told me this kid would score that many goals, I would have laughed.”
In Seattle, Geekie’s quiver was practically empty compared to its current occupancy. He always had one arrow: his shot . That summer in Calgary, it didn’t take long for Geekie to blow Sigalet’s hair back with it.
“Right away, his shot stood out,” Sigalet recalled. “Even before he comes out, the guys are like, ‘Wait until you see this guy shoot the puck.’”
Geekie owned a Porsche of a wrister. The trouble was he never really got it out of the garage. He had 97 shots in 2021-22.
“He wasn’t causing any issues,” Sigalet said. “He wasn’t hurting his team. But he wasn’t utilizing his skill set either.”
Sigalet made his initial on-ice assessments. He reviewed Geekie’s clips.
He saw athleticism. He learned that Geekie, who was very good at baseball, deferred becoming a single-sport hockey player until later than his on-ice peers.
As for his NHL accomplishments, Sigalet thought Geekie, on occasion, worried about not making mistakes instead of pushing the offensive envelope. It may have been why the ice time and opportunities that should have awaited Geekie did not always come.
Sigalet saw something there. But he did not want to overpromise.
“He was up front,” Geekie recalled. “He said, ‘I’m not trying to make you a 50-goal scorer. I know you can’t play the same way that guys in the top six can play.’”
In retrospect, Sigalet was wrong.
Sigalet was a puck-moving defenseman who played 199 AHL games for Providence. After his playing career, he launched Sigalet Hockey, his Walpole-based skills development consultancy. Clients include Noah Dobson, Jake Sanderson and Zach Werenski, defensemen known for offense.
With Geekie, Sigalet suggested subtle changes. He had him adjust his stick placement on faceoffs. He wanted him to improve his balance. When Geekie skated through the middle of the offensive zone to shoot, he reminded him to lean away from defenders to maximize his back-foot power. Sigalet showed Geekie that his 6-foot-3, 212-pound frame was an asset below the goal line.
Sigalet’s objective was for Geekie to get open more often to maximize his shot. But what’s easy in theory can be punishing in practice. It requires sword-sharp awareness of everything that is happening and what could come next: what a linemate will do with the puck, how an opponent will defend, where other teammates will go.
Geekie improved at reading patterns upon each offseason rep he performed with Sigalet and every in-season clip they reviewed. Even if it wasn’t producing results with the Kraken, who did not issue Geekie a qualifying offer after an 81-shot 2022-23 season, other teams were watching.
“If you’re able to put yourself in those spots that all the good players do, organizations have enough people who will see those things,” Geekie said. “Maybe a part of that’s the reason I came here. I didn’t play a lot of minutes. I played probably pretty sheltered. I was never really in the position I’m in now. So for Boston, just to see, ‘Oh, we see something here,’ a lot of that’s just attributed to Sigs.”
On July 1, 2023, Geekie signed a two-year, $4 million contract with the Bruins. He had a good first season: 17 goals and 22 assists in 76 games, playing mostly on the third line.
In the playoffs, then-coach Jim Montgomery put Geekie on the No. 1 line with Pastrnak. It was enough for Montgomery to try it again — albeit after scratching him five times in the first 16 games — the following season.
It wasn’t just that Pastrnak unlocked something in Geekie. When Geekie got the call to play with one of the world’s best players, Sigalet had him ready for the ride.
Pastrnak can score goals in every way imaginable: pick corners, walk defenders at high speed, wallop left-elbow one-timers, clean up close-quarters garbage. But Pastrnak’s curve-wrecking brain lets him see plays that others do not. His hockey sense makes him just as dangerous as a passer.
“I still think most people look at him as a shooter,” Sigalet said. “A lot of credit to him for the humility to pass up on a lot of those shooting opportunities to look for passes that ultimately benefit the team and benefit Morgan on the receiving end. Pretty outstanding skill set on his part to be such a dual threat.”
Pastrnak’s finishing touch clicked with Geekie’s. Goalies could not cheat toward Geekie. Pastrnak would make them pay.
So as the Geekie-Pastrnak partnership advanced, Sigalet dove into video to help his client understand everything No. 88 liked to do. Even before then, Sigalet’s counsel in training Geekie where to go had activated to a greater degree.
If, for example, Geekie took the puck out of the left corner and passed it to Hampus Lindholm, he had a good idea the defenseman would go D-to-D. Depending on the opposition’s coverage, Geekie had options on where to go to receive a cross-ice pass. More often than not, Geekie took the best route to shake his defender, create a seam for Pastrnak and be at an optimal angle to beat the goalie.
This let Geekie find quiet but dangerous plots of ice while everyone was watching Pastrnak. By the time Pastrnak got the puck to Geekie, nobody was in position to stop his howling shot. A slot-line Pastrnak pass for Geekie to one-time from the left elbow has become one of their signature maneuvers.
“He loves playing east-west,” Geekie said. “I’d never really played an east-west game until I started playing with him. Then you realize how much it opens up.”
Last season, according to Natural Stat Trick , the Bruins outscored opponents at five-on-five at a 57-35 rate when Geekie and Pastrnak shared shifts. The Bruins were outscored 12-8 when Geekie played without Pastrnak.
This season, the Bruins have a 22-18 advantage when Geekie and Pastrnak are together. They are up 13-12 when Geekie does not have No. 88 on his wing.
Geekie is no longer just on for the ride.
“I thought he didn’t like me for a while,” Sigalet said with a laugh when he recalled his initial work with Geekie. “He’s a sweetheart of a guy. But when I first met him — I don’t know if ‘cold’ is the right word — not a lot of smiles coming out of him right away. He’s sizing you up to see if you’re real or BS, which I totally get.”
Geekie has become one of Sigalet’s closest clients. Geekie spent the first week of the Olympic break in Florida with his family. On Feb. 16, a day before the Bruins resumed practice, Geekie went on the ice with Sigalet at Warrior Ice Arena for a rare in-season session. Geekie had company: Tanner Jeannot, Sean Kuraly, Mason Lohrei and Andrew Peeke. Sigalet ran them through in-tight shooting, backhand work and skating drills emphasizing balance.
Sigalet pictures a pyramid when he describes his work. His clients require a wide and sturdy foundation of skills. The fun part is building atop the base.
“To get into the weeds with them and teach them how to do it properly — shift their weight the right way, have their weight in the right part of the blade — it’s all these little details,” Sigalet said. “Once they feel it, it’s like hitting a flush golf ball or throwing a perfect spiral. They’re like, ‘Oh, wow. Yeah, that felt good. Let’s do that again.’”
Hiring Sigalet didn’t turn Geekie into one of the NHL’s top goal scorers. It was a series of circumstances stacking up: aging, gaining experience, more ice time, playing with Pastrnak, growing in confidence. He’s now in the first season of a six-year, $33 million contract.
All of this has Geekie approaching the peak of a pyramid that is higher than anyone expected.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Fluto Shinzawa is a senior writer for The Athletic covering the Boston Bruins. He has covered the team since 2006, formerly as a staff writer for The Boston Globe. Follow Fluto on Twitter @ flutoshinzawa