article_id: nyt_56
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/how-to-clean-books/
title: It’s Time to Clean Your Books
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Katie Okamoto is an editor focusing on sustainability. She’s covered the intersections of products, environment, and health for more than a decade.
Of all my possessions, the only ones I really, truly love are my books. They are like friends — no, they’re family. And I have been neglecting them.
True, some books I handle regularly, mainly poetry collections and cookbooks. But most of them — novels, essay collections and memoirs, tomes about apples and oysters and architecture — are parked on my shelves, quietly keeping me company, warming my room with their array of colors and textures.
And they’re gathering dust. Occasionally, a particularly enticing spine will catch a visitor’s eye, and they’ll ask to borrow it, and I will go over, pull it out, and sneeze.
Join me. It is time for us to change this.
There are two main reasons to take up the chore of cleaning your bookshelves. First (and this should appeal to you, fellow book lover), it is for the health of your books.
Dust is a fascinatingly banal horror. Its composition varies, but it may include dead skin and hair, mold, pollen, microplastics, and bits of dust mites and their droppings. Dust can cause staining, said Rebecca Fifield , associate director of collection management at the New York Public Library, in a phone interview. It can also attract insects, she said, which can burrow into your books.
If that’s not enough, the second reason is for your own health. Americans spend an average of 90% of their time inside, according to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and dust can impact your indoor air quality. This is why experts recommend routinely damp-dusting and vacuuming to improve your air .
Regular bookshelf maintenance can be a low lift, though, and for most people, deeper goings-over need be done only about once a year. I consulted experts at the Los Angeles Public Library, the New York Public Library, and Yale Library, as well as three bookstore managers and one bookbinder. Here’s what they told me about caring for your bookshelf.
“Regular cleaning and care for your books will lengthen their useful life,” said Christine McCarthy, the director of preservation and conservation at Yale Library, in an email interview.
The first step to caring for your books is selecting an ideal location for them. “The most important thing you can do is to avoid storing books in areas where there are extreme temperature and relative humidity fluctuations,” said McCarthy. That means avoiding basements, attics, and locations near steamy bathrooms.
Moisture can cause your books to swell, encourage mildew or mold growth, and attract silverfish, a wingless insect with an appetite for paper — all of which are bad news for your collection. You should also avoid placing books directly beside or under air vents, said Amanda Charles, a librarian at the Los Angeles Public Library, in a phone interview, because there they may be directly exposed to temperature and humidity fluctuations.
Most experts I spoke with also advised against keeping cookbooks in the kitchen, where heat, grease, and cooking particulates can tax your books. But Matt Sartwell, a managing partner at Kitchen Arts & Letters in New York City, had a more lenient view.
“I honestly think that you should keep cookbooks where you’re most likely to use them, unless you’re in possession of a first edition of Joy of Cooking or something that has extraordinary collector’s value,” Sartwell told me by phone. “Cookbooks are meant to be taken into kitchens and used.”
However, don’t store newspaper clippings, such as cut-out recipes, inside books, advised Sartwell, since some inks can discolor pages. Instead, stash those clippings in an envelope that you can keep inside the book.
Try to keep your books out of direct sunlight, since it rapidly fades covers. “The spines are where we most often see fading and embrittlement of book covers as they are the most exposed,” said McCarthy.
How you shelve your books can also protect them, said McCarthy. She advised using bookends to keep them upright because, over time, slumping can weaken a book’s joints and hinges. Shelve oversize or especially heavy books flat to help preserve their bindings.
Another preventive measure: Avoid pulling books out by tugging the top of the spine, which can stress the binding and dustcover over time, said McCarthy and David Weinstein, a bookbinder based in Los Angeles. Instead, it’s gentler if you slightly push in the books on either side of the book you want to grab, such as with your ring finger and index finger. Doing so allows you to grasp your desired book on either side of its spine.
Though John Waters once commented that you needn’t rush to read your book collection, the more you handle your books — pulling them out to peruse or read or lovingly gaze upon — the less often you’ll need to dust them.
To keep dust at bay, avoid sweeping around the area where your books are stored, which can kick dust up onto the shelf and give you more dusting to do. Instead, use a vacuum with a HEPA filter , a microfiber cloth to damp-dust, or a mop . You can also use HVAC air filters to reduce dust, said McCarthy. (If you don’t have an HVAC system, an air purifier can have a similar effect.)
To dust your bookshelves, use a dry microfiber cloth or magnetic wiping cloth. Begin with the top (or head) of the book, said McCarthy, “since that’s usually the dustiest part of the shelved book.” Then clean the bottom (foot), followed by the spine. Be gentle, particularly with paper book jackets, which can tear.
MagicFiber’s cleaning cloths are thicker and felt better in our hands than the others we tested, but they’re more expensive.
“Dusting your bookshelf every few weeks will reduce the risk of insects and provide an opportunity to monitor the condition of your books,” said McCarthy. If you have dust allergies, you may want to dust more frequently to avoid kicking up a ton of dust into the air. (Typically, allergists recommend damp-dusting, but book experts discourage using water around books as much as possible.)
If you have allergies to dust mites, you may want to do a deeper clean, similar to the one described below, more often. This process involves removing the books from the shelves to give the area behind the books a thorough clean, said Kat Pongrace, director of marketing and assistant manager at McNally Jackson Books in New York City. “You can dust the books themselves, like the spines and the tops that you see, but where dust accumulates is behind the books,” she explained.
In addition to regular dusting, do a deeper clean once or twice a year. This project will eliminate major dust buildup and allow you to check for insects. You’ll also have the chance to take inventory and decide which books you want to keep and which ones you want to store, sell, or donate, said Keith LaVecchia, inventory manager at McNally Jackson Books, in an email.
To start, take your books off each shelf. Vacuum the shelf or wipe it down with a damp cloth and allow it to dry completely.
Then dust each book off before you put it back on the shelf. You have a few ways to do this, and it can be as simple as running a dry microfiber cloth over the book. To capture the most dust, you can follow a method similar to what the New York Public Library employs: Use a soft-bristled brush, such as a hake brush, to sweep the book’s closed pages, angling the book toward the intake nozzle of a vacuum.
Generally, experts don’t advise directly vacuuming books, except with very specialized attachments, since you can tear or bend them. If you must vacuum your books, McCarthy suggested placing cheesecloth over the hose to help reduce the suction and running the vacuum on its weakest setting.
As a conservation specialist, Fifield doesn’t recommend damp-dusting books. But other experts I spoke with didn’t discourage the practice completely, as long as you allow the books to dry thoroughly before reshelving them. “Because if they’re damp, they will stick to each other,” said Charles. “You can damage the cover.” She advised using a barely damp cloth.
If you encounter mold, silverfish, or signs of other insects, such as detritus and dark specks, the affected book is not a lost cause, said Fifield.
Seal the book in an airtight bag, such as a Ziploc or other zip-top bag, and put it in the freezer for 72 hours. Once 72 hours have passed, remove the bag from the freezer and — this is important! — do not unseal it. Leave it sealed for another 24 hours to prevent condensation from forming, said Fifield. “You want that condensation to be on the bag and not on your book.”
After 24 hours, you can remove the book and clean it to remove the remaining detritus. That way, “if there’s a new infestation later, you’re not getting confused” about what’s a new infestation and an old one, said Fifield. McCarthy said that you may need to repeat this process to address unhatched insects or larvae.
If you’re removing mold, clean the book outdoors while wearing a protective mask .
When you’re going through your books, you may also notice that some of them need spot-cleaning. The experts I spoke with differed on how heavy-duty you should get with spot-cleaning, but the general consensus was that for mass-market books that can be easily replaced, use your discernment and try the least intensive method you can first. Often, a barely damp paper towel or microfiber cloth is all you need, said Weinstein.
For stubborn grime or pen stains on mass-market book covers, particularly those with “varnished” covers (those with a gloss), you can upgrade to Purell (recommended by Pongrace), lighter fluid (recommended by LaVecchia), or Sterling’s Magic (recommended by Sartwell). All of them serve as non-water-based cleaners that dry quickly and don’t allow water — the archenemy of books — to infiltrate the pages. They also don’t leave behind an oily residue. They are not recommended on non-glossy books, rare books, or those with cloth or leather covers.
Avoid using tape to repair ripped covers or dust jackets, said Weinstein, as that can damage and discolor pages.
If you find yourself veering into perfectionism while you’re cleaning your books, Sartwell offered a bit of perspective: “If someday you’re not here, whoever inherits your book will be happy to know that this page looks like that because it was a recipe that you loved.”
But some books that are irreplaceable need TLC. In that case, consult a book conservationist before attempting to DIY, said Fifield. She recommends the American Institute for Conservation , which has a database for finding experts in your area.
As for how you should put your books back: “If you want to organize your books by color, you can do that,” said Charles. “If you want to organize by Dewey Decimal, you can Dewey Decimal.” If you’re the tracking type, she recommends the open-source app LibraryThing , which allows you to build your own catalog.
“Basically, your home library is your expression of your intellectual passions and pursuits,” she said. “You obviously want to take good care of it, but however you want to organize it, that works for you and your household, is great.”
Here’s to you and your books. Happy cleaning.
This article was edited by Megan Beauchamp and Maxine Builder.
If you want to get back into reading paper books and escape internet distractions, this handy reading light might help.
A cozy bookshelf stuffed with titles will always make my heart flutter—but waking my Kindle from its slumber has started to bring me that same surge of joy.
These literary gifts will appeal to anyone who gets excited at the mere sight of a new book.
I focus on the intersections of shopping, sustainability, and environmental health. I also lead and advise on standards for reporting on environmental impacts and green marketing claims of products in Wirecutter’s coverage.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).