article_id: nyt_57
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/the-gift-lunar-new-year-20260213/
title: 13 Gifts to Celebrate the Year of the Horse
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Ellen Lee is a staff writer at Wirecutter. She’s always wearing a little bit of red for luck.
In this edition of The Gift, we’ve handpicked gifts to celebrate Lunar New Year. Plus: the best gifts to give yourself.
There’s a Chinese rhyme I learned as a child. It loosely translates to: “May you have a happy and prosperous new year! Give me a red envelope!” Every year, I’d recite it, then collect my red envelopes full of cold, hard cash — and hoard them like Scrooge McDuck. Truth is, the best Lunar New Year gift will always be crisp bills tucked inside a red envelope.
Now as an adult, the little ones hit me up for red envelopes with that same rhyme. And while I always make sure to give a little cash, I’ve been delighted to find more to give, too. From jewelry to sweets to toys, these gifts have expanded how I celebrate Lunar New Year with my family and friends.
We still practice long-held traditions like eating a lot of delicious food and sweeping out the past year’s bad vibes to make room for good luck. But this year I’ll also be ringing in the Year of the Horse on Feb. 17 with an assortment of small treats.
Whether you go big every year — or you’ve never celebrated before — join me in delighting over these tokens. Any of them would make for a lovely birthday gift or just-because February treat, too:
Including bouncy, gushy socks and a vintage-style space heater that looks like it’s right out of “Mad Men.”
This is arguably the best time of year for some good ol’ self care. Consider a cozy, cushiony fleece sweatshirt or a luxe moisturizer bar.
Our favorites include a sophisticated necklace and a precious heart locket.
My husband and I are traveling to Denmark and will be visiting several generations of family friends, ranging in age from 4 months to 66 years. We need ideas for small gifts we could bring in our carry-on luggage. — B.B.
From gifting expert Mari Uyehara:
For fun-loving families with tweens and younger, consider this dance-party button that plays 30 seconds of upbeat music when you press it. It’s great for getting out the wiggles or a quickie homework break. These cutesy temporary tattoos are a cut above their cheaper counterparts, with long-lasting saturated colors and shiny metallics. And these see-through miniature puzzles are quick to put together and will enchant any Studio Ghibli fans.
On the more adult end of things, these teensy vases come in five different hues and sizes and look like a little art display once arranged. And your loved ones can pin their burning desires on these whisper-thin wish bracelets , which purportedly grant wishes when they fall off. I’m personally a fan of these silly-looking pot holders shaped like bow-tie pasta — they don’t take up much counter space and are just right for grabbing lids off simmering pots.
Our present-hunters are here to answer your questions. By completing this form, you agree that we may add your address to our list for the newsletter The Gift.
My focus includes school gear such as water bottles and backpacks, technology such as kids smartwatches and parental controls, and gifts for kids.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).