article_id: nyt_59
url: https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2026/02/12/books/romance-book-tropes-themes-glossary.html
title: Your A–Z Guide toAll Things Romance
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
From cinnamon rolls to stern brunch daddies , here are 101 terms you
		should know to understand the popular literary genre.
By Jennifer Harlan Illustrations by Millie von Platen
Jennifer Harlan spent years reading hundreds of romance novels to prepare for this story. Her favorite trope is black cat/golden retriever.
Apron tugger. Shadow daddy. Wallflower. Fae. Sometimes it can feel as if romance novels come with their own special language — one you must learn in order to achieve maximum swoon. If you’re a dedicated reader, this terminology can help you pinpoint exactly which books will be your speed; if you’re new to the game, they can overwhelm you like so much overdressed word salad.
Whether you’re a superfan or a casual reader, if you’re genre-curious or you just want to understand why people keep talking about “spice” at the bookstore, here are 101 terms you should know. If you see something that strikes your fancy, we’ve got recommendations for books that show off these terms at their best. With any luck, you’ll find something to fall in love with — which, after all, is the whole point.
Whether you’re looking for a classic or the latest and greatest, start here.
Tell us a few things about what you like, and we’ll give you a spot-on recommendation.
These vintage books introduce the archetypes, settings and lavishly bonkers sensibility that are the hallmarks of great romance.
Here are the books our columnist loved the most this year.
Steamy love stories starring athletes and top-notch yearners will tide you over until your next trip to the cottage.
The best-selling author Hannah Bonam-Young recommends swoon-worthy love stories with spicy beginnings.
Our columnist read “The Everlasting” too late to put it on her Best of 2025 list. She’s sorry!
Produced by Aliza Aufrichtig, Matt Dorfman, Tonya Douraghy, Tina Jordan and Tina Zhou.