article_id: nyt_61
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/company/netflix-inc?page=8
title: Netflix Inc.
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
The deal would put the combined company in the same league as Disney and Amazon. But Netflix and YouTube will still easily outrank everyone.
Global officials are expected to closely examine the $111 billion deal, which ties together two entertainment powerhouses, over potential competition issues.
It is entirely possible, analysts say, that Netflix will be better off by bailing from its $83 billion deal with Warner Bros. Discovery.
Employees at the company had started to warm to the idea of Netflix as its corporate owner. Now they face the prospect of major cuts under Paramount.
By Brooks Barnes and John Koblin
Not long ago, Mr. Zaslav was widely criticized for his management of Warner Bros. Discovery. He overcame the doubters, cementing a blockbuster sale to Paramount.
By Benjamin Mullin and Lauren Hirsch
The media company controlled by the Ellisons out-dueled Netflix for control of Warner Bros. Discovery. The next step is making the combined media empires work.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe, Grady McGregor and Ian Mount
The move was a stunning development in the long-running corporate battle for the storied media giant.
By Lauren Hirsch, Michael M. Grynbaum and Benjamin Mullin
Warner Bros. Discovery said Paramount’s new offer of $31 a share could lead to a “superior proposal” to the deal it signed with Netflix.
The takeover battle took a new turn on Tuesday as Warner Bros. Discovery reopened talks with its rebuffed suitor. But big questions still remain.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe, Ian Mount and Lauren Hirsch
Paramount’s takeover bid was rejected in favor of Netflix, which wanted only the streaming and studio businesses. Paramount said it would pay more if negotiations were reopened.
Warner Bros. Discovery had agreed to sell itself to Netflix, but its contract allows it to pursue offers that may lead to a superior deal.
The league is so important to the business of media companies that they are likely to have little choice but to agree to renegotiations.
By Ken Belson and John Koblin
Senators asked Ted Sarandos about whether the acquisition would raise prices, squeeze talent and degrade the moviegoing experience.
Netflix will pay all cash for the $83 billion deal to acquire major parts of Warner Bros. Discovery, instead of a mix of cash and stock.
By Lauren Hirsch, Benjamin Mullin and Nicole Sperling
The announcement was the latest in a series of increasingly aggressive actions by Paramount to buy Warner Bros.
The board said the blockbuster deal it reached with Netflix last month posed less risk.
YouTube’s big streaming lead over Netflix and other competitors stems in large part to its dominance during daylight hours.
Mr. Ellison’s personal guarantee is meant to address concerns that the Warner Bros. Discovery’s board had expressed about Paramount’s original offer.
The media company formally rejected a hostile takeover bid by Paramount and questioned the purported political advantages held by its unwanted suitor.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe and Grady McGregor
The claim was made as part of Warner Bros. Discovery’s dismissal of Paramount’s hostile takeover offer.
By Lauren Hirsch and Brooks Barnes
Affinity Partners, Mr. Kushner’s private equity firm, played a small financial role in Paramount’s $108 billion offer, but it had attracted political attention to the deal.
The streaming service now has more than 30 video podcasts lined up for 2026, including the influential radio show “The Breakfast Club.”
Three Democrats are seeking information from tech firms about the growing energy use of data centers and the utility bills of individuals and other businesses.
By Ivan Penn and Karen Weise
The Oracle co-founder has pledged billions to finance Paramount’s takeover bid for Warner Bros. Discovery — which has questions about his commitment.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe, Lauren Hirsch and Ian Mount
Larry Ellison is backstopping Paramount’s bid for Warner Brothers, but Warner Brothers is concerned that the billionaire has not provided a personal guarantee to pay.
President Trump’s unusual decision to involve himself in the government’s review of the deal puts pressure on his antitrust chief.
The president has shattered norms by pledging to “be involved” in the regulatory fate of a transaction that could reshape the news and entertainment industries.
By Michael M. Grynbaum
The offer to shareholders comes days after Warner Bros. agreed to sell its streaming and studio business to Netflix.
By Benjamin Mullin, Lauren Hirsch and John Koblin
The fate of the blockbuster Hollywood deal is in the hands of federal regulators.
President Trump said the acquisition “could be a problem,” suggesting he will insert himself into the regulatory review of the transaction.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe and Vivienne Walt
Netflix’s blockbuster deal to buy Warner Bros., including HBO, is the latest twist in a rivalry that has reshaped the entertainment industry.
The cash-and-stock deal would give the world’s largest paid streaming service expansive power over theater owners and entertainment-industry unions.
Much of the entertainment capital fears that Netflix’s deal will lead to more job losses and theater closings and fewer boundary-pushing movies.
By Brooks Barnes and Shawn Hubler
The streaming giant has changed its strategy many times over the years. But the decision to get deeply into theatrical releases may be the most startling yet.
Netflix struck a deal to buy one of Hollywood’s most storied studios. But a scorned rival, and the Trump administration, may put up a fight.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Brian O’Keefe and Grady McGregor
The deal to acquire the Hollywood behemoth’s television and film studios as well as HBO Max will bulk up the world’s biggest paid streaming service.
By Brooks Barnes, Lauren Hirsch and Nicole Sperling
The outcome of the sale could alter the trajectory of the entertainment business.
By Benjamin Mullin, Lauren Hirsch and Nicole Sperling
The company is shifting its video game strategy to focus more on popular games you already know, such as Pictionary and Boggle.
A letter from Paramount’s chief executive, David Ellison, to Warner Bros.’ board of directors reveals weeks of talks between the companies.
By Lauren Hirsch and Andrew Ross Sorkin
Potential bidders are circling the media company as it weighs its deal options. But financial and regulatory questions hang over everything.
By Andrew Ross Sorkin, Bernhard Warner, Sarah Kessler, Michael J. de la Merced, Niko Gallogly, Ian Mount and Lauren Hirsch
The streaming giant attributed the higher results to a mix of subscription growth, advertising and other sales.
Netflix will show video versions of 16 podcasts on sports, culture, entertainment and true crime.
By Nicole Sperling and Jessica Testa
The world’s largest and most influential video platform wants to persuade a lot more content creators to broadcast live.
“Demon Slayer: Kimetsu no Yaiba Infinity Castle,” an anime film from Sony Pictures, arrives to a surprisingly strong $70 million in domestic ticket sales.
The state announced the first 22 projects to take advantage of its hefty new incentives to attract production.
A battle is heating up in the streaming world as millions of Americans sign up for multiple services through a single provider instead of separate apps.
Brandon Riegg pushed the streaming service to invest in live shows and sports, transforming Netflix into something more like a traditional TV network.
It was another strong quarter for the streaming giant, which generated $11.1 billion in revenue.
The two giant video companies have far different strategies, but the same goal: controlling your TV set.
The streaming giant announced a deal on Wednesday to show live and on-demand programming from one of France’s television networks, TF1.
In May, more Americans watched television on streaming than on cable and network television combined, Nielsen said. It is the first time that has happened over a full month.
The company has turned an in-person fan event into a live televised spectacle.
The deal is a much-needed shot in the arm for Sesame Workshop, the nonprofit that produces “Sesame Street” and has been struggling financially.
Warner Bros. Discovery executives are reinstating the name HBO Max for the popular streaming service. It’s the fourth name change for the app in the last decade.
The implications for the industry could be significant, given that most other streaming services have copied Netflix’s design.
The talk shows are one of the few TV genres that haven’t made the leap to streaming. Their future may instead look a lot like a podcast studio.
The streaming giant brought in $10.5 billion in revenue in the first three months of the year. For the first time, it didn’t disclose its quarterly subscriber figures.
The Netflix co-founder said he wanted his alma mater to become a leader in studying the consequences, and guiding beneficial uses, of artificial intelligence.
The film’s struggles have elicited no more than a shrug inside the company, demonstrating how different Netflix is from traditional studios.
Prosecutors say Carl Erik Rinsch used funds for a science-fiction series for personal investments. An arbitrator ruled in Netflix’s favor last year.
Netflix had thought the movie could deliver the company its first best picture award. But comments from its star have put it on the defense.
People now watch so many programs at so many different times in so many different ways that measuring viewership has become a hot debate in the industry.
The company said those results were buoyed by programming in recent months that exceeded internal expectations.
Film production has failed to bounce back after major strikes last year, and competition from other locales has gotten stiffer.
The success of the show’s first season surprised Netflix executives, reaffirming the company’s global strategy.
By Nicole Sperling and Jin Yu Young
Just a few years ago, media executives thought theatrical releases didn’t benefit their streaming services. Now, many of them think the opposite.
The National Labor Relations Board’s case against the Netflix hit could have ripple effects across the reality TV industry.
Like Christmas shows? So does Hallmark+. Like horror? Dare to try Shudder. And British shows? There’s BritBox and more.
In the end, Ms. Robbie got what she wanted, signing a deal with Warner Bros.
The additions helped lift revenue to $9.8 billion during the period, a 15 percent increase from the same period last year.
The platform first known for viral videos now attracts more viewers on TVs than Netflix, Disney+ or Amazon Prime Video.
By Nico Grant and John Koblin
Once again, a show with little following has become hugely popular once it starts streaming on Netflix.
Shows like “Bridgerton” and “The Roast of Tom Brady” performed well for the streaming service, which now has 278 million subscribers worldwide.
The top nominees are announced at 11:30 a.m. ET. “Shogun” and “The Bear” are poised to have a big day.
Netflix and Amazon are driving a small bump in the market for TV shows after a major slowdown.
Major U.S. entertainment companies are hiring a former top F.B.I. official and renewing a push for federal legislation to combat online thievery overseas.
The company’s latest internal memo about its corporate culture is more about how it expects employees to behave than what it wants to become.
Who will survive? Die? Thrive? And how? We talked to nearly a dozen top media executives and asked them to predict what lies ahead.
By James B. Stewart and Benjamin Mullin
An arbitrator awarded Netflix damages from the Hollywood director Carl Erik Rinsch, who had been developing a high-profile TV series, “Conquest.”
Ads are here, there — almost everywhere — on streaming services now.