article_id: nyt_62
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7056415/2026/02/19/blue-jays-kevin-gausman-retirement-possiblility/
title: Blue Jays’ Kevin Gausman on winning, family and what might be his final season
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Kevin Gausman will weigh retirement as he considers the toll of being away from his family: “My kids are only getting older. The more you push that envelope, the more you’re risking." Emilee Chinn / Getty Images
DUNEDIN, Fla. — Kevin Gausman kneeled on the Yankee Stadium mound, a beer in his hand and champagne splotching an untidy undershirt. His daughters, Sadie and Sutton, ran up to him and grabbed their father’s open hand. Gausman stood up, goggles from a clubhouse celebration still resting on his head, and smiled.
That moment, hours after the Toronto Blue Jays defeated the New York Yankees in the 2025 American League Division Series, captured Gausman’s driving forces — winning and family. It was a rare time when the two could live in harmony. Eventually, Gausman will put baseball aside and focus solely on family. Entering his 14th big-league season, that decision could arrive this year.
In the final season of his five-year contract with Toronto, Gausman has thought about retirement, he told The Athletic . For the 35-year-old anchor of the Blue Jays’ rotation, this season could be his last.
“I think it’s definitely a possibility,” Gausman said Wednesday. “I have really loved my time here. Do I know what’s ahead of me? I don’t really know. No idea. It’s something that I have definitely thought about in the offseason. But now that we’re here, I’m just focused on this year. I’m gonna give everything I have for this organization and this team this year. What’s beyond that? I really have no idea.”
The righty has been the Jays’ top starter during his time in Toronto, helping elevate the franchise to a regular postseason contender. Gausman, Zack Wheeler and Dylan Cease are the only three pitchers to record more than 1,000 strikeouts over the past five seasons and showed no signs of meaningful decline in 2025. He’s finished top-10 in Cy Young voting three times and pitched in every round of the postseason.
A World Series title is all that’s left for Gausman to accomplish, he said. If he and the Blue Jays find their way to a championship, recording those two outs that eluded them last fall, he could check the final box. It could end with a title in the city where his career began.
Three batters into his big-league career, Gausman threw over to first base. Making his MLB debut at Rogers Centre in 2013, the Orioles rookie didn’t expect how loudly 20,000 Blue Jays fans would voice their displeasure. The raining boos, he said, were his welcome to the big leagues.
In the 13 years that followed, the top prospect was waived, released and untrusted out of the bullpen. He found his signature splitter, made All-Star teams and signed a $110 million deal to anchor Toronto’s rotation. He played for the worst regular-season team in baseball and later the best. Gausman and his wife, Taylor, started a family. Any retirement decision, Gausman said, will be made alongside his wife and with his children in mind.
All Gausman’s daughters have known is their father being away for nine months, though his baseball career provides them with opportunities few kids can experience, he said. Still, he wonders whether it’s fair to them.
“My kids are only getting older,” Gausman said. “The more you push that envelope, the more you’re risking. What’s the positive? What’s the negative? Do I get home and really only have a couple more years of them even wanting to be around you?”
Gausman’s goal is consistency in everything he does. He wants to be a rock for his manager, a constant for his teammates, and reliable for his family. In four seasons with the Blue Jays, he’s delivered exactly that. Gausman has made at least 31 starts every year. His arm swings like a well-tuned metronome after each inning, tossing a piece of chewed gum aside as he struts off the mound. He sits in the corner of the clubhouse, lingering as long as any player, in case his insight is required. His demeanour is the same each day.
“Kev doesn’t speak very loudly,” manager John Schneider said. “But when he does, every single person listens.”
That’s why Game 6 of the World Series replays in Gausman’s mind. He wanted to be reliable once more. With Toronto up 3-2 in the series, Gausman had a chance to pitch his team to a title. A few hours of brilliance could’ve made Gausman a champion. He pitched six solid innings in a 3-1 loss, as Yoshinobu Yamamoto was simply better. There are countless “what ifs” in Toronto’s seven-game World Series loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers, but Gausman can’t help but focus on his own.
“I’ll think about Game 6 for the rest of my life,” Gausman said. “Specifically, Game 6. Playing at home, I had a chance to essentially pitch my team to a championship. I really took that personally and really wanted to do it. I really did. Going into Game 6, it was the most excited I’ve ever been to start a game.”
It took Gausman 13 seasons to get that close. He earned those moments on the field with his daughters after the Division Series and Championship Series, smiling through the fray of Toronto’s on-field celebrations. But there could’ve been one more.
After Gausman’s Game 6 start, he walked through the tunnels of Rogers Centre, searching for his family. He stopped when he saw a gargantuan stage covered in World Series logos being dragged away from the field. It was ready, if needed, to roll onto Toronto’s turf in celebration of the Jays’ title. He chuckled and kept walking, reaching his wife and daughters in the tunnel. This year, in what may be his last, Gausman hopes they’ll meet him on the field instead.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Mitch Bannon is a staff writer for The Athletic covering the Toronto Blue Jays. Before joining The Athletic, he covered the Blue Jays for SI.com and wrote for MLB.com in a freelance capacity. He is a graduate of McGill University and the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. Follow Mitch on Twitter @ MitchBannon