article_id: nyt_63
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7030076/2026/02/08/drake-maye-best-rookie-cards-patriots/
title: The best Drake Maye cards to collect: A wide array of rookies and where to find his autographs
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Sports Memorabilia and Collectibles
Drake Maye's card values rose dramatically during the 2025 season. Matthew Stockman/Getty Images
New England Patriots’ quarterback Drake Maye has quickly worked his way into the hobby spotlight, putting together an MVP-caliber campaign in 2025 and leading the team to Super Bowl 60.
He finished the season as the most searched NFL player on eBay. He was so popular among football card collectors that he had 31-times more cards graded by PSA than Los Angeles Rams quarterback Matthew Stafford, who beat Maye out to the season’s MVP award.
PSA’s five most graded Maye cards to date:
But what are the best options when it comes to starting a collection of Drake Maye trading cards? Here are our picks.
2024 Panini Prizm Red White & Blue #329 rookie card
Maye’s 2024 Prizm Red White & Blue parallel offers strong value due to its unique eye appeal and relatively limited number of PSA graded examples compared to his other Prizm rookie cards (1,848 compared to 3,465 Silvers and 4,261 base). The prestige of Prizm rookie cards is especially attractive to collectors, while the Patriots-matching colors make it a standout alternative to his popular Prizm Silver parallel.
The value of sports cards can fluctuate for various reasons such as condition, print runs, or graded population. Other factors that can cause prices to go up or down include player performance, market trends, and health of the wider economy. The secondary sales market for individual cards of a given sport generally hits its lowest point during the offseason (in other words, you can usually find better prices in the offseason than during the season). My recommendations are not an attempt to promote specific investment behavior or trading advice, but to guide and inform readers about popular and unique cards that are celebrated by the sports card community.
Ultimately, the best cards to collect are always the ones you will personally enjoy most, regardless of whether they go up or down in value. The recommendations below should serve as a starting point for cards to consider, but a big part of the fun in collecting is the hunt for the cards you like.
Cards can come out of the pack (their “raw” state) with a wide variety of imperfections that can impact their value. Card grading is a process in which an expert of the field determines the condition of a card based on a number of factors (including corner sharpness, image centering, print imperfections, and more) and assigns a numerical grade, usually on a scale of 1-10 (with the latter being close to perfect) and sealed in a protective case. There are a number of grading companies, each with their own unique grading scales, but PSA (Professional Sports Authenticator) is by far the largest and most prominent in the industry. Cards graded a “PSA 10” can carry a significant value multiplier compared to raw cards or those graded by other companies.
It’s fine (and often cheaper) to buy cards raw, but if you want to ensure authenticity and/or a minimum condition level, and you’re not experienced at determining card condition for yourself, you may want to buy a graded card instead — particularly if you’re buying online and only able to see the card in photographs.
This is a category for collectors who are on a tighter budget or aren’t as concerned about the long-term monetary value of the cards they buy.
2024 Panini Mosaic #303 rookie card
Mosaic cards are generally regarded as one of Panini’s mid-to-lower-tier chromium (shiny) football releases known for their modern design, rainbow parallels, and occasional rare inserts.
While Mosaic is typically considered a notch below sets like Prizm, Select, and Optic, it still generates significant excitement each year. This is largely because it’s the first NFL-licensed chromium set released to feature rookie cards from the latest draft.
Mosaic products are easily accessible and offered in a wide range of retail (purchased from stores like Walmart and Target) and hobby formats (which are only available online and in hobby shops).
If you’re looking to add an affordable chromium base rookie card to your collection, Maye’s Mosaic #303 is a solid option. Raw versions are currently selling on eBay for less than $5 with several transactions per day over the last 30 days, while PSA 10s are going for under $200.
More parallels of this card: Mosaic, Blue Reactive Mosaic, Camo Pink Mosaic, Camo Red Mosaic, Genesis Mosaic, Geen Mosaic, Honeycomb, No Huddle Silver Mosaic, Peacock Choice Mosaic, Red Mosaic, Red Sparkle, Silver, White Sparkle, Yellow Reactive Mosaic, Orange Mosaic (/199), Blue Mosaic (/99), Blue Sparkle (/96), Fusion Red and Yellow Choice Mosaic (/80), No Huddle Blue Mosaic (/75), No Huddle Purple Mosaic (/50), Purple Mosaic (/49), Orange Fluorescent Mosaic (/25), White Mosaic (/25), Gold Sparkle (/24), No Huddle Pink Mosaic (/20), Gold Wave Mosaic (/17), Blue Fluorescent Mosaic (/15), Tessellation Mosaic (/15), Geen Swirl Mosaic (/13), Pink Swirl Mosaic (/13), Gold Mosaic (/10), Green Fluorescent Mosaic (/10), No Huddle Gold Mosaic (/10), Pink Fluorescent Mosaic (/10), Red Wave Mosaic (/9), Black Gold Choice Mosaic (/8), Green Sparkle (/8), Black Mosaic (1/1), Nebula Choice Mosaic (1/1), No Huddle Black Mosaic (1/1)
2024 Panini Donruss Optic #229 rookie card
Optic sets are a premium, chromium version of Donruss and its iconic “Rated Rookie” cards. When Donruss introduced the “Rated Rookie” back in 1984, it helped spark a surge in rookie card collecting that continues to influence the hobby today.
The former UNC Tar Heel has over 10 different cards included in the 2024 Donruss Optic set, but his #229 rookie is one of the only cards to include the Rated Rookie logo.
Optic’s well-established Rated Rookie cards offer excellent value compared to pricier sets while remaining highly sought after. PSA 10 sales on eBay are currently in the $200 range, and raw copies will cost you around $5. But If you like the set and would rather buy a more limited Maye Optic Rated Rookie, I’d consider looking at the list of colorful parallels (see below) to determine which you may prefer.
More parallels of this card: Blue Glitter, Blue Hyper, Blue Scope, Fire, Freedom, Green Hyper, Green Velocity, Holo, Jazz, One Hundred, Pink, Purple Scope, Purple Shock, Red Hyper, Red Mojo, Red Stars, Rocket, Stars, Teal Velocity, White Sparkle, Wave (/300), Aqua (/299), Orange (/249), Blue (/199), Flex (/149), Red (/125), Pink Velocity (/80), Orange Scope (/79), Electricity (/75), Purple (/60), Lime Green (/50), Team Logo (/32), Black Pandora (/25), Dragon (/24), Footballs (/16), Ice (/15), Purple Stars (/15), Gold (/10), Blue Mojo (/5), Green (/5), Black (/1), Gold Vinyl (/1), Nebula (/1)
This is a category for collectors looking to pay a bit more for cards that have some degree of scarcity and have a better chance at retaining or increasing in value long-term.
2024 Panini Select Field Level #475 rookie card
Select football cards stand out as one of Panini’s top chromium releases, known for their various levels of base cards, die-cut cards, and colorful parallels. 2024 Select has five tiers of base cards: Concourse, Premier, Club, Suite, and Field Level. The base set checklist has 500 cards, with each tier divided by rarity — Concourse is the most common and Field Level is the rarest.
The horizontal design captures Maye using his legs to slip past a defender toward the end zone, something that the second-year QB has had success doing since entering the league.
Even though this is technically considered a base rookie card, the total PSA population is less than 40 graded examples. Because of this, PSA 10 sales are extremely limited, with three sales in January for around $250 each, while raw examples are fetching about $40 each, depending on centering and condition.
More expensive parallels of this card: Cosmic, Silver, Tiger, White Sparkle, Zebra, Tri-Color (/99), Blue (/75), Dragon Scale (/70), White (/35), Tie-Dye (/25), Gold Dragonscale (/15), Pink Glitter (/15), Gold Prizm (/10), Orange Pulsar (/7), Green (/5), Green and Black Snakeskin (/2), Pink (1/1), Black (1/1), Black Dragonscale (1/1)
2024 Panini Prizm Red White & Blue #329 rookie card
Among the various Maye rookie cards produced in 2024, his Red White and Blue Prizm is particularly appealing because of its unique color-matching (when the card’s colors match the player’s team colors) and relatively limited supply compared to other common parallels.
Red White and Blue Prizm parallels (RWB) are exclusively included in retail fat packs of 2024 Prizm football, making them more difficult than other parallels that are offered across multiple formats and box configurations.
According to PSA’s population report, Maye’s RWB Prizm has been graded nearly 1,850 times, while his Silver parallel, which is historically very popular among collectors, is approaching 3,500. Despite the higher population, the Silver commands roughly double the value of the RWB in a PSA 10, with recent eBay sales around $750 for the RWB. Collectors seeking it at a more affordable price can find PSA 9 copies selling for about $125.
Overall, Maye’s RWB Prizm parallel serves as a compelling alternative to his Silver parallel because of its lower PSA population, more accessible price point, and Patriots team color-match design.
More parallels of this card: Black and Red Checker Prizm, Black and White Checker Prizm, Blue Prizm, Choice Blue, Yellow and Green Prizm, Choice Tiger Stripe Prizm, Disco Prizm, Green Prizm, Green Ice Prizm, Lazer Prizm, Neon Green Pulsar Prizm, No Huddle Prizm, Orange Ice Prizm, Pink Prizm, Pink Wave Prizm, Press Proof Prizm, Purple Pulsar Prizm, Red Prizm, Red Sparkle Prizm, Silver Prizm, Snakeskin Prizm, Wave Green Prizm, White Sparkle Prizm, Pandora Prizm (/400), Orange Prizm (/249), Blue Wave Prizm (/230), Purple Ice Prizm (/225), Hyper Prizm (/180), Red Wave Prizm (/149), Purple Prizm (/125), Blue Ice Prizm (/99), No Huddle Blue Prizm (/99), Purple Wave Prizm (/99), Blue Sparkle Prizm (/96), Green Scope Prizm (/75), No Huddle Red Prizm (/75), Orange Wave Prizm (/60), No Huddle Purple Prizm (/49), Purple Power Prizm (/49), Red and Yellow Prizm (/44), Red Shimmer Prizm (/35), White Prizm (/35), Blue Shimmer Prizm (/25), Navy Camo Prizm (/25), No Huddle Pink Prizm (/25), Gold Sparkle Prizm (/24), Choice Red Prizm (/20), Choice Cherry Blossom Prizm (/15), Forest Camo Prizm (/15), Choice Blue Prizm (/14), Choice Gold Prizm (/10), Gold Prizm (/10), Gold Shimmer Prizm (/10), No Huddle Neon Green Prizm (/10), Wave Gold Prizm (/10), Green Sparkle Prizm (/8), Gold Vinyl Prizm (/5), Green Shimmer Prizm (/5), White Knight Prizm (/3), Black Finite Prizm (1/1), Black Shimmer Prizm (1/1), Choice Nebula Prizm (1/1), Stars Black Prizm (1/1)
This is a category for collectors looking to acquire the most desired Maye cards on the market.
2024 Topps Chrome Rookie Autograph #RA-DMA
Topps Chrome Football made its long-awaited return in 2024 as a non-licensed NFL set (meaning it did not include team names and logos on the cards), highlighted by exclusive rookie autograph cards from Caleb Williams, Jayden Daniels, and Maye. Although Panini holds the exclusive NFL trading card license until mid-2026, it was not able to include autograph cards of the aforementioned trio because of their exclusive Fanatics deals.
While unlicensed football cards are often viewed as less desirable in the hobby, Maye’s Topps Chrome rookie autographs remain highly sought after since they are his only rookie autograph cards in existence.
Before Maye’s breakout 2025 season, PSA 10 graded copies sold on eBay for around $400, with recent sales surpassing $2,000 as of January 2026.
More expensive parallels of this card: Green Wave Prizms, Aqua Refractor (/199), Aqua Sonar Refractor (/199), Blue Refractor (/150), Green Refractor (/99), Gold Refractor (/50), Gold Wave Refractor (/50), Orange Refractor (/25), Orange Wave Refractor (/25), Red Refractor (/5), SuperFractor (1/1)
2024 Panini Prizm Manga #M-DMA
Panini has consistently pushed the envelope with its rare insert cards, introducing fresh themes and visual styles that capture collectors’ attention, and the Manga insert line is a prime example.
First appearing in 2021 Prizm football, these ultra-rare cards draw inspiration from Japanese manga art and anime-style illustration. Maye’s card portrays him wearing a colonial-style tricorn hat with a star on the front and a flowing cape, leaning into the Patriots’ theme. A cosmic background with a rainbow Prizm finish also gives it an intense, holographic feel.
Manga inserts are exclusive to premium hobby products and do not appear in retail releases such as mega or blaster boxes, which adds to their scarcity and desire among collectors. As of this writing, fewer than 50 examples of Maye’s Prizm Manga inserts have been graded by PSA, with a recent PSA 10 sale hitting $14,000 — firmly placing it among Maye’s most valuable cards. Upon its release at the end of 2024, raw sales were in the $3,000 range, positioning early buyers favorably as demand for Maye cards continues to grow.
Given their scarcity, these cards are becoming difficult to track down. So if you’re looking for another popular Maye rookie insert that’s a bit easier to find yet still quite valuable, consider his 2024 Donruss Downtown or 2024 Panini Absolute Kaboom!
2024 Certified Franchise Foundations #7
It’s safe to say that Maye has solidified himself as the long-term quarterback for the Patriots, and this Franchise Foundations rookie insert is a fitting representation of him as the cornerstone of a new era in New England. Maye standing atop a pedestal with a large Patriots logo in a metallic background, reinforces the theme that he’ll be the face of the team and a foundational player for years to come. At about $20, its an easy way for fans to add a cool, eye-catching rookie card to their collection.
2024 Panini Spectra Color Sphere #CSDME
Panini delivers all the colors of the rainbow in Maye’s Color Sphere insert from 2024 Spectra football. A set known for its premium thick card stock, the popular case hit shows Maye mid-dropback against a sparkling cosmic backdrop featuring the Spectra and “RC” logos in the top corners. The swirling spherical design adds further depth and eye appeal, giving the card a futuristic feel.
Prices for a certain trading card can vary wildly and fluctuate quickly, making it important to check recent sales of a given card to make sure you’re buying at a fair value. You can check recent sales of an item on eBay by selecting the “sold items” filter on search results. You can also run a search on 130point.com , which is a free site that provides sales data from a number of top online marketplaces. There are also several apps that provide more in-depth sales data, often charging subscription fees for full access.
To account for outliers and scams, it’s important to consider multiple previous sales, not just the single most recent. It’s also important to note the recency of those sales and any real-world factors that could affect changes in value.
As a second-generation collector, Tyler Holzhammer started collecting cards and attending the National Sports Collectors Convention at 10 years old. He’s evolved his passion as a collector into a career, previously providing sports card content and market analysis for companies like Sports Card Investor and Goldin Auctions. Tyler’s sports card collection is centered around players from his favorite teams, the Los Angeles Rams and the St. Louis Cardinals.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Tyler Holzhammer is a sports collectibles writer covering the trading card hobby. He previously served as a content specialist for Goldin Auctions and Sports Card Investor. Tyler attended Florida International University, and is from Trenton, NJ.