article_id: nyt_64
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7051161/2026/02/17/2026-best-worst-mls-jerseys-kits-tina-turner-grateful-dead/
title: From nods to Tina Turner and the Grateful Dead, some new MLS jerseys swing big
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
New MLS kits for the 2026 season MLS
In revealing its new jersey for the upcoming 2026 MLS season, St. Louis City sought to honor the late Tina Turner. The globally renowned rock star passed away in 2023, but her legacy as a great American artist, and one with deep ties to St. Louis, lives on.
Her songs are iconic. We’ve all either belted it out at a bar or sung it to ourselves in the car: “You’re simply the best, better than all the rest!”
City’s nod to Turner is great. The jersey, however, won’t be as universally loved as Turner. Honestly, most Americans have had it with all the gold decor. Then again, few leagues around the world garner a polarizing response to new jerseys the way that MLS does, and at least this is a creative swing.
Remember when Adidas, the league’s kit sponsor, mailed in design after design? The teams hardly pushed back. It got to the point where the look and feel of MLS clubs became a homogenized closet of templated T-shirts and polos.
Some teams were also guilty of stripping away their unique identities in favor of a cookie-cutter business strategy that prioritized volume over variety. Fans had no choice but to take the bait. ‘They’ll buy it no matter what’ was probably said within several marketing meetings across MLS.
Depending on who you ask, the league’s jerseys have either gradually gotten better or regressed to a point where teams, and Adidas, have run out of ideas. Now, I worked in advertising for many years before shifting to sports journalism. I was on the creative side, where ideas and strategies can die a painful death once they reach a client’s inbox.
It’s an unrewarding business, and it’s a trend that I often see in MLS. There are several 2026 MLS kit concepts that fall victim to a group of conference-room decision-makers. Or the ideas feel forced and half-hearted.
For example, Inter Miami’s “presagio” away kit (it’s just a black jersey) is meant to “capture the anticipation and tension that the team’s arrival generates.” The English definition of “presagio” can mean a good or bad omen, or a premonition of something to come. In this case, it’s meant to symbolize the emotions Lionel Messi conjures around other MLS cities, or as is written in the promotional material, “It’s the shift in the air when the club walks into another stadium.” It reads like a video idea that was relegated to website copy.
To that end, there are some new MLS jerseys that I like, others that are just OK and far more that don’t pass a basic design test.
Here are my top five — simply the best, and better than all the rest — and least favorite five of the new MLS shirts for the upcoming season, which kicks off this weekend:
It’s a tie-dye look and feel that pays homage to Northern California’s beloved Grateful Dead. I’ve never been a Deadhead. Jam bands aren’t my thing, but the Quakes took a simple idea and made it easy to like.
Another concept that looks to the past for modern-day inspiration. This year is the 30th anniversary of the 1996 Olympic Games, a seminal moment for the city. Green and gold were important colors for that year’s Olympic logo, but what I like is that this secondary shirt looks like a soccer jersey. And it’s well-designed.
When it comes to black and gold, designs can either be incredibly limited or interminably vast. LAFC consistently gets its home jerseys right by embracing new ways to make its primary color pop. Art Deco is a popular design aesthetic, so the club didn’t reinvent the wheel here. But it’s tasteful and stylish.
Sometimes I just want to see a soccer jersey that I’d feel good wearing in a game, not to a bar. This is it. Montréal calls this the Procure jersey, made in tandem with an organization raising awareness and funding to fight prostate cancer and symbolizing “unity and hope” while taking inspiration from the club’s 2015 look. I’d also market this as the soccer fan’s soccer shirt. It’s nice and clean. Montreal will look sharp during a 2026 campaign that could be rough on the pitch.
Austin is fearless when it comes to stripes usage. I don’t mind it. Another good-looking jersey that will look better on a high-endurance professional athlete than on Matthew McConaughey. However, there is a notable difference between the authentic kit and the replica. The replica looks like it’s faded after too many washes.
Honorable mentions: Minnesota United’s Decade kit, NYCFC’s All Nations kit, Toronto FC’s Winter kit, and FC Cincinnati’s Seven Hills kit, Seattle’s Evergreen State shirt.
You won’t convince me that Charlotte’s jersey designs have improved. Despite this year’s crown-like details on the neck and sleeves, it still looks like a vest.
I try not to judge a procrastinator because I am one. This Rapids jersey, though, looks like a last-minute idea from a club that does very little to inspire confidence. It’s called the Colorful Colorado kit, but it’s black with random bits of light blue and yellow that are barely noticeable.
This jersey is screaming at me. It’s a road rage incident. It’s an oiled-up bodybuilder in swimming briefs. It’s an irate customer who’s mad that the barista got their iced matcha order wrong. Tone it down.
I wanted to like this jersey, really I did. It’s a huge moment for the city of Philadelphia as the U.S. celebrates its 250th year of independence in 2026. The design elements were plentiful, but this execution looks tacky.
It’s just a black jersey that could easily be confused with a training shirt. For a club that continues to push the envelope, this is about as safe as it gets.
Could’ve earned mentions: LA Galaxy’s VeloCity kit, Houston Dynamo’s Mission Control jersey, D.C. United’s Black and Red kit, Nashville SC’s Reverb kit.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Felipe Cardenas is a senior writer for The Athletic who covers soccer in South America, North America and more. Follow Felipe on Twitter @ FelipeCar