article_id: nyt_65
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/gifts/valentines-day/
title: Valentine’s Day gifts
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
8 gifts that meet the moment of your love, wherever that may be.
Video games can be a great way to spend an evening with your partner, and we have options for players of all skill levels.
10 loving treats we’re doling out to all our loved ones this Valentine’s Day.
by Gabriella Gershenson, Lesley Stockton, and Haley Sprankle
We’ve taste-tested 36 brands of chocolate since 2014, and we found six delicious, luxurious boxes that make perfect gifts.
by Samantha Schoech and Mari Uyehara
We’ve gathered a bunch of fun, beautiful, and thoughtful Valentine’s Day gifts for the deserving girlfriend, mom, or BFF in your life.
by Samantha Schoech and Mari Uyehara
We have a perfect gift for your girlfriend whether she's outdoorsy, design-minded, literary, fancy, practical, or all of the above.
by Samantha Schoech and Mari Uyehara
Handsome, surprising, and silly finds to delight the man in your life.
by Ellen Lee, Rachel Hurn, and Wirecutter Staff
Whether you’re looking for one special gift or a project to complete together, we’ve gathered ideas to help spread the love this Valentine’s Day.
by Mari Uyehara and Samantha Schoech
A great Valentine’s Day gift doesn’t have to be expensive. We have dozens of gifts to express your love on a budget.
by Hannah Morrill and Mari Uyehara
Ordering flowers online can feel like a shot in the dark. Of the 16 we considered, a couple standouts were consistently fresh, beautiful, and timely enough to recommend.
by Samantha Schoech and Mari Uyehara
Celebrate your best gal or a whole gaggle of them with our favorite glimmery, shimmery, and affordable Galentine’s Day gifts.
by Mari Uyehara and Samantha Schoech
Running a little late on Valentine’s Day? No worries, these sexy, romantic, fun gifts will arrive in two days or fewer.
by Mari Uyehara and Samantha Schoech
Because men want to feel loved too, we’ve found 37 perfect gifts — from sexy stuff to sweaters — to express your affection.
by Samantha Schoech and Mari Uyehara
We have inventive takes on the traditional-by-year anniversary gift as well as sentimental, practical, and beautiful gifts that don’t follow any rules.
We dish on some of our favorite gifts to surprise your sweetie with—from an iconic pleated bag to a sexy deck of cards. Plus: what to give a curmudgeonly partner.
The rose toy is worth the hype, but we don’t think it’s the best vibrator of its kind.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).