article_id: nyt_66
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7033798/2026/02/09/seahawks-mike-macdonald-super-bowl-target/
title: Seahawks embracing role as ‘target No. 1’ a day after winning Super Bowl 60
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Mike Macdonald's Seahawks are ready to embrace the role of being the hunted. Thearon W. Henderson / Getty Images
SAN FRANCISCO — The morning after the Seattle Seahawks were crowned champions of Super Bowl 60, coach Mike Macdonald looked ahead to next season and fully acknowledged his team’s new standing as “target No. 1.”
“We use the term chasing edges here in Seattle,” Macdonald said on Monday. “You have to live like that, you can’t be copying everybody else. We want to be on the forefront of things.
“It’s really going to be our mentality for us to keep pushing the envelope with our personnel (and) where we can take things at our speed. There are going to be times where we feel like teams get a beat on us, and we’re going to have to move and shake. That’s happened several times throughout this season as well. That’s just how we operate.”
The Seahawks won their second Lombardi Trophy with a 29-13 victory over the New England Patriots at Levi’s Stadium on Sunday. The postgame party, which was happening in the locker room of their rival 49ers, was a smoky, beer-filled celebration of a win that players and coaches were confident they could achieve .
Seattle held the New England to 79 rushing yards, less than the 124.4 yards halftime performer Bad Bunny traveled with the football during his show, per Next Gen Stats . The man behind that stingy defense, coordinator Aden Durde, became the first British coach to win a Super Bowl.
The 46-year-old from London began his NFL coaching career through the NFL fellowship program as an intern with the Dallas Cowboys in 2014. Macdonald hired him to his staff when he took over as head coach two years ago, and made Durde the first British-born DC in league history.
“AD is an absolute game changer for us, not just an incredible story about what got him to this point — which is awesome in its own right — but just him as a football mind, a football coach, really someone that has brought us together,” Macdonald said. “The way that our front and our defense play inspired football is a great tribute to how AD operates and what he brings to our football team and our organization. We absolutely love him.
“I’m really happy for AD. He’s a beast, man, he’s awesome. He’s so much fun to work with, and he’s right there alongside building this whole thing, so it’s been a special journey.”
Macdonald said he told the team on Saturday that he has a bad habit of sitting in his office with the coaching staff, overthinking their defensive game plan and what plays to call. But those pregame jitters relax once he sees how his players can execute on the field.
“Then you get around the guys, and you see them, and all of a sudden, all those worries go away magically,” Macdonald said. “That speaks to how they play. It became very clear, very early, they were a determined bunch and we were going to play our style of ball last night.”
Offensively, the Seahawks established a run game that helped Kenneth Walker III become the first running back to win Super Bowl MVP since Terrell Davis in 1998. Walker ran for 135 of the Seahawks’ 141 total rushing yards. He tallied 27 carries, plus he grabbed two catches for 26 receiving yards.
“You go through a lot of ups and downs, but when Mike came in, he talked about winning, and I believe everyone on the team bought into that,” Walker said, while giving credit to the O-line and the rest of the offense for making his job easier. “We built a brotherhood, a strong brotherhood. I believe that’s what got us here.”
Getting here is one thing — staying is another. Things move quickly in the NFL. And as the Super Bowl 61 logo was revealed Monday during a handoff to the Los Angeles Host Committee, the page turned towards the quest for the next championship. This time with the Seahawks as target No. 1.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Jayna Bardahl is a staff writer for The Athletic. She has worked as an editor and reporter covering Big Ten football and men's basketball, and was an intern at The Boston Globe, where she covered the Boston Red Sox and New England Patriots. Follow Jayna on Twitter @ Jaynabardahl