article_id: nyt_69
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7017859/2026/02/04/newcastle-january-transfers-analysis/
title: What does Newcastle’s lack of transfer activity tell us about where the club is?
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Eddie Howe is dealing with injuries as he juggles domestic and European competitions Andy Buchanan/AFP via Getty Images
For the fourth transfer window out of five, Newcastle United have not improved their first XI with a game-changing acquisition. Affected by injury and labouring in the Premier League, it means Eddie Howe will have to go with what he has for the remainder of the season, something the head coach has acknowledged is a “risk”.
If it felt like Newcastle had a Midas touch in the first few windows post-takeover, it feels very different now, particularly after the difficulties of last summer, when Alexander Isak belatedly signed for Liverpool and the club he left faced a desperate scramble to pick up the pieces.
So what, if anything, does Newcastle’s lack of activity tell us about where the club is in early 2026? Are they still pushing for the top? Are they now more risk-averse after having their fingers burned by the Premier League’s profit and sustainability rules (PSR)? Does it inform the debate about Howe’s position?
Newcastle writers Chris Waugh and George Caulkin discuss these issues and more.
George Caulkin: The past few weeks have been a sharp contrast to the summer, when angst hung over St James’ Park. A window that offered leeway descended into acrimony when Isak refused to play for Howe’s team. His departure to Anfield was only sanctioned on September 1, by which time Newcastle were playing catch-up. They were not helped by a dearth of leadership in executive positions.
In the end, they spent around £250million ($341m), but few, if any, of their new signings had been their first choices and they have paid a price for this, particularly in attack, where they have struggled to integrate Nick Woltemade and Yoane Wissa. Malick Thiaw has made the first team better, but overall, it is worse without Isak’s quality. For 18 months before then, it had stood still.
January has been a desert. There was a throwback moment towards the end when Sandro Tonali was linked with Arsenal, but Howe has held talks with the Italy international and is apparently content that this is not going to be a repeat of the Isak saga.
The interesting question to me is: what is the strategy now?
Chris Waugh: For fans who have seen the team sometimes toil in the Premier League, I entirely understand why there is a sense of frustration at the lack of activity. But, in truth, from early December, the message coming out of the club was that Newcastle were unlikely to be busy.
Ross Wilson, the sporting director, may have declared that Newcastle could spend , but he also qualified that by saying “if we want to”.
Any potential signings had to “align with what the summer plan looks like”. Incomings would have been prospective summer targets whose acquisition had been brought forward.
Newcastle did conduct significant due diligence on versatile defenders, left-backs and centre-halves in particular — Toulouse’s Dayann Methalie and Club Brugge’s Joaquin Seys among them — but ultimately determined that the players who were available and attainable were not going to make the desired short-term impact on the first XI.
Kees Smit, midfielders and attackers are a different matter, which we will come on to.
Caulkin: This is a long way away from the early days post-takeover, when Newcastle’s hit rate was astonishing and they constantly pushed the envelope. No signing was a dud; Chris Wood was an expensive, short-term addition in January 2021, but the team stayed up, which meant it was money well spent. Other arrivals in the first two windows, such as Kieran Trippier, Dan Burn, Bruno Guimaraes, Nick Pope, Sven Botman and Isak, were transformative. This level of success was always unsustainable.
Newcastle were also opportunistic. Isak was signed after Callum Wilson sustained an injury, and they brought forward a bid for Anthony Gordon to take advantage of their own league position (they were pushing to qualify for the Champions League) and Everton’s financial difficulties. When they did get into Europe, it meant strengthening again.
Selling big players and reinvesting was always part of the strategy, but Everton’s 10-point deduction for breaching PSR (later reduced to six on appeal) altered the narrative. Newcastle had overstretched.
The after-effects are still being felt. “We’ve been used to working in these conditions for a while,” Howe told reporters on Tuesday morning. “We’ve only been active in one transfer window out of the last four or five. So we’re under financial restrictions. We have to be really, really smart and we’ve decided to wait until the summer.”
Waugh: The events of June 2024 left a lasting scar.
Selling Elliot Anderson and Yankuba Minteh for a combined £65m at the 11th hour may have represented excellent business in that it prevented Newcastle from getting a 10-point deduction or losing a key asset, such as Isak (at the time) or Gordon, but in hindsight, it also shows that short-termism left the club in a weak transfer position. Anderson is now an England international and is being linked with £100m moves, while Newcastle were still unable to sign a first-XI player for the next three windows despite those sales.
Paul Mitchell’s short tenure as sporting director saw prudence trump ambition as Newcastle tried to get on a more sustainable PSR footing, and it seems a degree of caution is still being applied.
The other complication is UEFA’s financial sustainability regulations, which are even more restrictive for Newcastle than the Premier League’s PSR rules. Newcastle can spend only 70 per cent of their annual revenue on player and coach wages, transfers and agent fees — the squad-cost rules (SCR) the Premier League will introduce from next season work on the same principle, but have a looser 85 per cent threshold — and that is having more of a limiting effect on their transfer dealings.
Newcastle had the capacity to spend last month — particularly given the £125m British-record sale of Isak in September — but they also invested heavily last summer. There was a reluctance merely to sign a stop-gap solution with no long-term future, with Newcastle identifying the off-season as a critical time for a refresh of the first XI (which is likely to be costly).
Caulkin: You can make the argument that Newcastle really could do with a lift, either a body at the back where injuries have exposed their lack of cover or a bit of quality elsewhere. They are 11th in the Premier League and seven points off fifth-placed Chelsea. Their chances of getting back into the Champions League look remote, particularly given the team’s poor away record.
By not pushing the button on an imperfect deal, Newcastle are looking at the bigger picture. There is no panic, even if it might leave them short. There is recognition at the top of the club that the events of the past few months mean this was always going to be a transitional, attritional season, and they will wait until the summer to reset. Howe is being supported. The stated aim of David Hopkinson, the chief executive, is to be the best club in the world, but that will take consistent growth.
In that scenario, it is better to take a step back and then go again, rather than chasing one bad window with a gamble. What they’re effectively saying at the top of the club right now is that you could blow everything up by attempting to shortcut, and after what they did in the summer, this window was never going to be a “rescue boat” for them.
Waugh: That appears to be the rationale and it explains why, even when Howe had only three fit out-and-out defenders available at one stage last month, Newcastle did not bring in someone they were not entirely convinced about.
The situation further up the pitch is slightly different.
Although Joe Willock is into the final 18 months of his deal and is likely to depart in the summer, the 26-year-old was only ever going to be allowed to leave this month if Newcastle could bring in a replacement in midfield (and that was before Joelinton and Guimaraes’ respective injuries).
Smit is a player Newcastle admire and exactly the sort of creative profile they would love to bring in — at 20, he is an ideal age, too — and their interest has been well documented. Given the calibre of clubs chasing Smit, Newcastle always knew it would be a long shot and deduced their best chance of signing the Dutchman would be a mid-season move. But they were only going to go strong with a bid if such a transfer appeared feasible, which, seemingly, it did not.
Many supporters were also desperate to see another striker, or at least an attacker of some form, signed. But after spending a combined £124m on Woltemade and Wissa in the summer, Newcastle were not going to splurge again on a centre-forward less than six months later.
Selling Will Osula and bringing in another young, versatile forward could have been an option, but again, that would have required a suitable offer for the 22-year-old, plus the availability of an attacker Newcastle wanted.
My view has always been that everyone around Newcastle would have been boosted by a signing of some description this month, even if it had merely been a backup left-back or centre-half. But looking around the Premier League, there are few players who have moved — beyond Antoine Semenyo, who did not appear gettable — that I would look at and think “Newcastle should definitely have made a play for them”.
Those inside Newcastle insist work is already well underway for the summer, implying that deals are being worked on in advance.
Caulkin: That certainly is the case with Patrick Zabi. Newcastle’s interest in the 19-year-old Reims midfielder, who is viewed as a project player, emerged on deadline day and is ongoing.
In broader terms, the summer of 2023 is quite illustrative. At the time — or just afterwards — Newcastle bringing in Tonali, Harvey Barnes, Tino Livramento and Lewis Hall seemed either counter-intuitive or disastrous. Tonali was soon facing a lengthy suspension for betting offences. Barnes struggled to displace Gordon. Livramento had Trippier in front of him at right-back, and Hall barely looked like a footballer; he was substituted at half-time in three of his first four appearances.
That window now looks very different, doesn’t it?
Might we ever say something similar about the summer of 2025? It feels unlikely at the moment, but senior figures at the club “fundamentally believe in our team”.
Is Howe happy with this approach? Managers always want more, but after enduring a difficult relationship with Mitchell, which was then followed by a vacuum at executive level, Howe is working closely with Wilson and Hopkinson. Everybody is playing up the concept of “alignment” and sticking to the plan. Howe accepts the financial position is tight and that spending for the sake of it would be counter-productive.
In these circumstances, why sanction the departure of Jamaal Lascelles to Leicester City? Why not recall Matt Targett from his loan at Middlesbrough? “It’s not just up to our wants and needs,” Howe said. “There’s another side to look at and that’s the players’ perspective. It’s not wise to force things on players that they don’t want because you have to have a harmonious dressing room.”
This fits with Newcastle’s wider, calmer view.
Howe was asked what this window says about Newcastle. “We’re working within the financial restrictions that we have,” he said. “I’ve always said there’s a willingness to spend what we can, but we have to work within the PSR limits. And then you have to make a decision on whether you can find the right player that fits.
“We have a short-term need. We have a need for someone to come in and play now, especially defensively. But those players cost money. And there’s a level of finance attached to their ability that we can’t reach at the moment.”
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms