article_id: nyt_70
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7018337/2026/02/04/chiefs-special-teams-what-went-wrong/
title: Why Chiefs special teams struggled in 2025 — and a big-picture question ahead
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Nikko Remigio is a sure-handed returner, but the Chiefs could use more explosiveness in their return game. Jamie Squire / Getty Images
Kansas City Chiefs special teams coordinator Dave Toub — perhaps more than any other coach on staff — is not afraid to share his innermost thoughts during interviews.
It’s why, when asked in early December about his special teams not being as impactful as the year before, Toub quickly interjected.
“Does that mean we’re s—–?” he said, deadpanning before a few reporters around the room laughed.
OK, so that term might be a bit strong. After taking a few seconds, though, even Toub acknowledged his 2025 special teams hadn’t lived up to expectations in the midst of an eventual 6-11 season.
“We’re not as good,” he said. “We’re not making as many plays as we did last year at critical times on special teams. That’s frustrating.”
So where did it go wrong for Toub’s units in 2025? And what provides the most hope for next season?
Let’s take a deeper look at the Chiefs’ special teams.
An overarching look at the Chiefs, per TruMedia, shows the special teams took a step back in 2025 while ranking 20th among NFL teams in expected points added.
Through 15 weeks — those games when the Chiefs were still in playoff contention — their special teams also ranked 26th overall.
We should start here, though: Part of the reason the 2025 struggles are so noticeable is that Toub has raised the team’s standards so much since joining the club in 2013.
The Chiefs are used to benefiting from a few special teams game-changing plays each year. That was especially the case in 2024, when K.C. went 15-2 and advanced to the Super Bowl with help from a particularly strong-in-the-clutch kicking game.
Things didn’t fall that way in 2025. Kicker Harrison Butker was notably inaccurate, and the special teams too often halted momentum with penalties and miscues.
“Just didn’t make plays, it seemed like,” Toub said. “We just couldn’t get a game where we made plays to win the game. And I’m speaking on my end of it. In the past, we’ve done that a lot of times.”
A look at the big picture — and expected points added numbers from TruMedia — gives us a better indication of the top issues from this past season.
Before getting to the negatives, it’s worth mentioning two areas Toub should be encouraged by.
Following rule changes ahead of the season, NFL teams were ready for kickoff returns to have a greater impact in 2025. And though there were six touchdown returns on these plays in the regular season, none of those came against the Chiefs’ special teams.
In general, K.C. was strong with its kickoff coverage unit, limiting big plays while ranking sixth in EPA.
Toub said he was happy in this aspect, noting the Chiefs also ranked in the top 10 there according to the team’s internal metrics.
“We had a lot of young players,” Toub said of his team’s kickoff coverage. “Obviously, they just keep getting better and better.”
The Chiefs also succeeded in special teams in a “do no harm” way. Specifically, the team did not have a lost fumble on special teams all season. That was part of an overall impressive run of ball security that resulted in only three lost fumbles in 2025.
Part of this special teams plan — to avoid risk — might’ve also cost K.C., though. For most of the season, Toub opted for the security of Nikko Remigio as a primary punt and kickoff returner over the upside of others.
And while Remigio proved to be reliable, he also didn’t reach the ceiling of other speedier NFL returners. It meant the return games and run game on offense suffered from comparable woes in 2025, as both units were held back by a lack of explosive ability.
On April 17 — just ahead of the 2025 NFL Draft — general manager Brett Veach was asked to address the team’s need at running back.
In doing so, he quickly circled to another topic: The need for more competition at returner as well.
“Remigio did a great job, but again, we’re always pushing the envelope to get 1 percent better,” Veach said. “If we can add another dynamic element to both return phases, that would be something that makes sense.”
Perhaps it shouldn’t have been surprising, then, when they took running back Brashard Smith in the seventh round while dreaming on his return ability. That never fully materialized in 2025 … or at least not until it was too late.
Before Smith could take over as a full-time returner, the Chiefs needed to see if he was up to it in the preseason. Though Smith was a kickoff returner for SMU in college, he wasn’t used much on punt returns, meaning preseason games would be vital for him to solidify his standing.
Just before the first preseason game at Arizona, though, Smith dislocated a finger in practice. Instead of getting extensive tries at punt returner in that game, he was limited to one fair catch (while wearing protective padding).
The next week, Smith got in for only two fourth-quarter punt returns, and he muffed the second one out of bounds. Toub eventually elected to go with the safer option of Remigio on returns, keeping him on the roster in what essentially was a special-teams-only role.
It didn’t turn out as he would’ve hoped. The Chiefs were 23rd in EPA on kickoff returns and 25th on punt returns, with a particular deficiency in creating splash plays. It also had to sting a bit that San Francisco finished second in kickoff return EPA while using former Chiefs second-round pick Skyy Moore, who needed a change of scenery but also was traded for minimal compensation ahead of the season.
With kickoff returns specifically, Toub said the unit was “not where I wanted it to be,” ranking in the 20s in the team’s internal metrics.
“That’s just not good enough,” he said. “We have to do a better job of getting some bigger returns at kick return.”
Smith showed promise on punt returns late. While serving as the primary returner the last two games, he contributed the team’s longest punt return of the season — a 44-yarder against the Denver Broncos on Christmas.
“It was really nice to see a young player that really hasn’t done it in an NFL game — (those were the) first reps that he got,” Toub said. “Pretty good.”
The typically clutch Butker tied for the NFL lead with nine combined missed field goals and extra points, which included multiple kicks that could’ve been game-changers in one-score games. He did stabilize a bit down the stretch, and a recent extension means he’s all but uncuttable as he looks to bounce back in 2026.
Punter Matt Araiza, meanwhile, improved on his pooch kicks in 2025 while providing K.C. roughly average NFL production.
The new NFL kickoff rules aren’t likely to change, meaning teams will continue experimenting with strategies to improve their production there.
Toub will likely have plenty to study this offseason. Not only are teams asking more of their kickers on dynamic kickoffs — requesting they place it both long and short — but also blocking schemes have been altered as opposing players line up closer to each other.
Modified X’s and O’s, however, are likely only to take K.C. so far in 2026.
After a disappointing special teams year, Toub and the Chiefs will likely have to ask themselves tough questions about their risk tolerance. Though Smith is inexperienced — and could be mistake-prone on punt returns while continuing to learn — his late-season burst likely reminded them of plays they might’ve missed while prioritizing ball security.
It all circles back to Toub’s main thoughts about a “crazy” and “weird” year in 2025, when the special teams were far from a catastrophe but also not the driving force behind a few wins like the team has gotten used to.
“We didn’t give up any huge returns, but we weren’t killing it in the return game on either end of it,” Toub said. “We’ve got to just keep getting better.”
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Jesse Newell is a staff writer for The Athletic covering the NFL's Kansas City Chiefs. Before joining The Athletic, Jesse worked as a staff writer for the Kansas City Star, Topeka Capital-Journal and Lawrence Journal-World while covering the Chiefs and University of Kansas Athletics. Jesse has won an EPPY for best sports blog and previously has been named top beat writer in his circulation by AP’s Sports Editors. He is originally from Emporia, Kansas. Follow Jesse on Twitter @ jessenewell