article_id: nyt_71
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/presidents-day-deals-20260211/
title: The Best Presidents’ Day Sales, Including Exclusive Deals on Mattresses, Bedding, and Sleep Essentials
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Kaitlin Mahar is a writer covering deals and sales. She strives to help readers make savvy purchases and steer them away from buyer’s remorse.
Presidents' Day is over, and so are most of these deals. We're no longer updating this article, but you can check out our Deals page for more discounts on your favorite Wirecutter picks.
No matter how meticulously you care for your mattress and bedding, you’ll have to replace them eventually. Even mattresses with extensive or lifetime warranties will inevitably start sagging, squeaking, or getting lumpy with the passage of time.
In addition, our price tracking points to an upward trend in mattress pricing year over year, which means replacing yours is a potentially expensive proposition.
Thankfully, Presidents’ Day offers the first chance of the year to claw some savings back. We’ve sifted through slumber sales to surface only the truly worthy discounts on our mattress picks, so you can rest easy about buying.
You can also save on other sleepytime upgrades, such as pillows , sheets , and comforters . Don’t be afraid to think beyond bedding, too: Tons of clothing, electronics, furniture, and appliance sales have already popped for Presidents’ Day, and some of them actually live up to the hype.
Each of the discounts below has been thoroughly vetted by the Wirecutter Deals team, and in some cases we’ve even gone a step further and secured exclusive prices to save you even more.
Offering medium firmness with some motion isolation, this springier hybrid’s 3,000-plus pocketed coils keep you buoyant as its quilted top loosely cradles your body. The fluffy and luxurious feel — one tester said they "felt like royalty"— is ideal for back and side sleepers.
30% off MSRP all sizes w/WIRECUTTER30
Other things to know: May not be durable enough for people over 200 pounds, and it’s not ideal for stomach sleepers. Not an ultra-soft or plush mattress. Limited lifetime warranty and 100-night trial period, but you can return a Leesa mattress only once. Our exclusive code WIRECUTTER works on the queen, king, and Cal king sizes.
Read more: The Best Hybrid Mattresses
This longtime pick was a favorite of our stomach-, back-, and side-sleeping testers. Its hybrid tech combines the best components of memory-foam and spring mattresses, with over 1,000 springs and four layers of CertiPUR-US–certified memory foam.
30% off MSRP all sizes w/WIRECUTTER30
Other things to know: It may be too foam-forward if you’re used to innerspring mattresses. Side-sleepers who prefer softer mattresses may not like it. Limited lifetime warranty and 100-night trial period, but you can only return a Leesa mattress once. Street price increased recently, but this is still a solid deal. Our exclusive code WIRECUTTER works on the queen, king, and Cal king sizes.
Read more: The Best Hybrid Mattresses
If you prefer to nestle into your mattress and not feel engulfed, this is the one for you. Classic innerspring bounce is paired with a cushy but understated 3-inch Euro top to make the most affordable innerspring mattress we’ve found that still looks and feels luxurious.
Other things to know: The Euro top may be prone to body impressions. Not the best motion isolation. Comes in thicknesses of 11.5 and 14.5 inches. Limited lifetime warranty, and you have 365 nights to try it. Deal price is for all sizes in our recommended Luxury Firm comfort level.
Read more: The Best Innerspring Mattresses
People who prefer a classic memory-foam sink will appreciate the body-conforming top and cushioned yet supportive feel of this medium-firm mattress. It has great motion isolation and solid edge support, offering a Tempur-Pedic–like feel without a Tempur-Pedic–like price tag.
Other things to know: Shifting positions can take more effort. Its foam densities are just okay. Not especially soft. Plain, basic design. No handles. 100-night free trial. 10-year warranty. Deal is for the 12-inch queen size.
Read more: The Best Cheap Mattresses (Under $500)
The squishy, structured, cradling feel of this topper provides good support and pressure-point relief: You rest on top of it, rather than being enveloped by it. It comes with a breathable, removable zippered cotton cover, so it’s ideal for hot sleepers.
Other things to know: The squishy, jiggly feel can be polarizing. The latex odor takes a few days to off-gas. The topper lacks corner straps and may shift. Like all latex bedding, it’s pricey. Three-year warranty. Street price has risen, and so have deal prices. Get the deal with code WIRECUTTER53 .
Read more: The Best Mattress Toppers
This puffy, fluffy topper’s evenly distributed down-alternative filling makes a firm mattress feel almost cloud-like (one tester said it felt like a hug). An overall crowd-pleaser, it’s especially great for side sleepers and people who like a pillowy hotel-bed feel.
Other things to know: It adds softness but doesn’t offer extra support. No corner straps to help it stay on the bed, but in our tests it didn’t shift around as much as heavier, slumpier toppers did. 30-day return policy. Get the deal with code WIRECUTTERSLEEP .
Read more: The Best Mattress Toppers
We’ve loved these super-soft sheets for a long time — and they’ll keep you warm and cozy for the long haul, too. A total bargain for their durability, these sheets are made of thick, plush Portuguese flannel that feels outstanding and has held up extremely well in our long-term testing.
Other things to know: The color options aren’t especially bright or modern, but for the quality and price, we’ve been happy to overlook that. Comes with L.L.Bean’s excellent customer service and one-year return policy. Listed deal price is for the queen size, but our exclusive code WCSLEEP15 works on all sizes.
Read more: The Best Flannel Sheets
Hot sleepers, rejoice: These cool, breathable percale sheets feel light and crisp against the skin. Made of long-staple cotton that can endure years of washes and wear, this set comes in a huge variety of colors and a rotating mix of hip prints.
Other things to know: Less durable than our percale pick from L.L.Bean, and they wrinkle more than most of our other percale picks. The fabric is “crispier” than our other percale picks and makes a crinkly sound when you rustle it. Oeko-Tex–certified. One-year return policy, with a $10 restocking fee. Listed deal price is for the queen size in solid colors, but our exclusive promo code WC28 works on all sizes and patterns.
Read more: The Best Cotton Sheets
With a durable construction that only gets softer with each wash, it's no surprise these supple sheets have been one of our favorites for years. They remain the best, most crisp and breathable percale sets we've ever tested.
Other things to know: Percale can feel too textured to people who prefer smooth, drapey sateen sheets. Not Oeko-Tex–certified. One-year return policy. Deal price is for the queen size, but our exclusive code WCSLEEP15 works on all sizes.
Read more: The Best Cotton Sheets
Linen sheets can be a game-changer for hot sleepers, and our longtime favorite set is durable, breathable, and one of the softest we've tested. It includes a fitted sheet, a flat sheet, and two pillowcases, but you can also purchase by piece.
Other things to know: We’ve heard a few reports of these sheets’ tearing within about a year, but we’ve still seen fewer complaints than with other picks. We suggest ordering swatches to confirm that you like the color and texture. No warranty and only a 30-day return policy for unused sheets. Use Wirecutter’s code WCSLEEP .
Read more: The Best Linen Sheets
Perfect for chilly nights, this high-quality down comforter features baffle-box construction with 700-fill-power duck down so you stay toasty without overheating. Its lightweight design also prevents it from sliding off the bed and helps it keep its loft, even after being in storage.
Other things to know: This is a newly launched redesign of our pick that we’re currently testing, but our first impressions are that it’s as good as its predecessor. The down leaks over time, but less overall than with most others we’ve tested. Outer shell is a bit rigid. One-year return policy. Two-year warranty. Deal price is for the all-season weight in the full/queen size, but our exclusive code WC27 works for all sizes. Street price has risen, and have so deal prices.
Read more: The Best Comforters
Soft, comfortable percale gives this duvet cover a luxurious hotel-bedding feel, without the fancy-hotel price. It’s one of the least expensive we've tried, and it offers the most stylish and interesting variety of prints we’ve seen.
Other things to know: Our original 2016 test duvet cover has endured testing for nearly a decade, but the fabric feels thinner now; it might not be sturdy enough for restless sleepers or households with kids or pets. Like most percale, the fabric can make a slight crinkling sound when you’re moving around. It also tends to wrinkle. Street price has risen in the past year. Deal price is for the full/queen size in solid colors, but our code WC28 works on all sizes and patterns.
Read more: Our Favorite Duvet Covers
Kids, pets, multiple rounds in the washing machine — this Supima cotton duvet cover can survive it all. It’s made from the same high-quality fabric as our favorite percale sheets, so it’s crisp and cool to sleep under and barely wrinkles out of the dryer.
Other things to know: Compared to sateen, percale doesn’t feel as soft, and it’s notoriously more crinkly and can sometimes look a bit wrinkled; still, this is the comfiest we’ve found. Not Oeko-Tex–certified. Deal price is for the queen size, but our code WCSLEEP15 works on all sizes.
Read more: Our Favorite Duvet Covers
Add a pleasantly rumpled look to any bed with this linen duvet cover, which sports a breathable rustic texture that is by far the softest we’ve tested. The strong, neat stitching holds up in the wash, and we’ve experienced no pilling, thinning, or construction breakdowns.
Other things to know: Swatches are available if you’re unsure of the color or texture. We have heard reports of holes developing in Cultiver linen within about a year, which isn’t unheard of for linen in general. No warranty and only a 30-day return policy for unused bedding. Use Wirecutter’s promo code WCSLEEP .
Read more: Our Favorite Duvet Covers
For fans of cloud-like pillows and for stomach sleepers, this supportive yet moldable down pillow is hard to beat. Its firm density has plenty of give and softness, so it’s easy to shape to your shoulders and neck.
Other things to know: The most expensive of our picks. A couple of testers found this pillow to be too high. One-year warranty. 90-day return policy. Deal price is for the firm pillow in the standard size, but code WCFEB works for all sizes.
Read more: The Best Bed Pillows
Chock-full of CertiPUR-US–certified, crosscut memory-foam cubes, this ultra-adjustable pillow has the loftiest customizable filling we tested. Testers loved how it felt like a gentle hug for the head. Plus, the entire pillow is washable (yes, even the filling).
Other things to know: The outer cover isn’t as nice as others. The foam may have a strong off-gassing odor after arrival. It does not come with an extra storage bag for removed fill. 100-day trial period, the longest of our picks. Five-year warranty. Deal price is for the queen size in the classic shape. Use our exclusive promo code WCSLEEP .
Read more: The Best Memory Foam Pillows
Our testers, particularly the side sleepers, ranked this as the most comfortable shredded memory-foam pillow they slept on. It provides firmer support that still cradles your head, and you can adjust the fill to your liking. The quilted cover is also the most durable we tested.
Other things to know: The foam is not CertiPUR-US–certified or washable. You may need to remove some filling to find the right feel. Expensive, even on sale. Comes with a fabric bag to store the extra shredded-foam fill. The quilted cover is made of cool-to-the-touch fabric that’s machine-washable. 30-night trial period and three-year warranty. Use our promo code WIRECUTTER35 .
Read more: The Best Memory Foam Pillows
Our experts consider these silk pillowcases to be a holy-grail helper for curly or potentially frizzy locks, as silk absorbs less product and creates less friction than cotton. They feel decadently lustrous and weighty right out of the box, but our testers liked them even more after the first wash.
Other things to know: The 25-momme count indicates a good weight of silk, while the 6A rating indicates a good strand length. Street price has risen significantly. Add two standard-size pillowcases to cart and use promo code WCVDAY to get the deal price.
Read more: My Favorite Hair Care Tool is a Silk Pillowcase. I Hunted Down the Best One.
Upgrade your beauty sleep with this opulent, fully adjustable silk eye mask, which essentially acts as a blackout curtain for your face. The doughnut-shaped eyecups sit right on top of the eye sockets, while a sturdy Velcro strap keeps the mask in place.
Other things to know: The bug-like aesthetic isn’t the most attractive. Some side and stomach sleepers found that the eyecups pressed uncomfortably on their faces. Dye may stain white pillowcases. Expensive, but we think it’s worth the investment. Machine-washable. Comes with a travel pouch. Use codes WIRECUTTER20 and WCFREESHIPPING to get the deal price.
Read more: The Best Gift I Ever Received Was This Bug-Like Silk Eye Mask
Cozy up in the comfort of this well-balanced and crisp weighted blanket, which feels like a cross between a quilt and a comforter. With sturdy, close stitching, it has an overall better quality than similarly affordable options, and it can even go in the washer and dryer.
Other things to know: Cotton batting prevents weight from enveloping you as closely as blankets without such filler. Traps heat more than knit-style options. Lifetime guarantee on materials and workmanship. Deal price is for the 15-pound full/queen blanket, but all sizes are discounted.
Read more: The Best Weighted Blankets
Prefer a gentler wake-up call? This smart-ish digital alarm clock is the least-jarring model we tested, with a soft glow and a selection of ambient music and nature sounds. Its thoughtful features include a built-in Bluetooth speaker and an adjustable night-light at the base.
Other things to know: The display is a bit too unobtrusive, especially if you’re nearsighted. Use code WCSLEEPMONTH to get the discount in white or black. Not as good as pre-price-hike deal prices, but we’re unlikely to see lower.
Read more: The Best Alarm Clocks
Featuring classic mid-century details, this handsome upholstered bed frame is our only pick with both a headboard and footboard. Durable and easy to assemble, it has two center legs for extra support and bunkie boards in lieu of slats.
Other things to know: The support boards aren't secured to the frame, which is a problem if your floors are uneven. It's not the best choice if you live in a humid area. Lifetime warranty. Price includes $149 shipping. Listed deal price is for the queen size. Use code WCSLEEP .
Read more: The Best Bed Frames
Our top pick since 2015, this air purifier is exceptional — one of the highest-performing, most-durable, and most-economical models we’ve tested. It runs quiet and dark, and excels in air-quality emergencies like wildfires. Our test model has lasted for years without a drop in performance.
Use promo code WIRECUTTER (deal on beige)
Other things to know: We recommend keeping it on the medium setting, which is quiet, energy-efficient, and effective. Accepts third-party replacement filters easily. This isn't the lowest price we've seen in the last year, but it’s still a good time to buy.
Read more: The Best Air Purifier
Enjoy a spa-like luxury hotel experience in the comfort of your own bathroom with the plushest, warmest, and thickest towel we’ve ever tried. It holds up for years, and feels fuller and more plush with each wash.
Other things to know: If you prefer thinner towels, this isn't the pick for you. Bulkier to store and wash. It isn’t cheap, but this deal helps. Use our exclusive code WCSLEEP26 to get the deal price.
Read more: The Best Bath Towel
This electric blanket is toasty without being heavy, thanks to its lightweight design and even heat distribution. It offers three heat levels and a two-hour auto-off function and comes in both solid colors and animal-inspired prints, which are surprisingly chic.
Other things to know: 50 by 70 inches. Not many electric blankets have nice-looking remote controls, but this one is especially plasticky. We could feel the wires even under its plush rippled fabric, but it wasn’t as bothersome when we lay under it. We’ve seen it for less here and there, but this is still a good buy across a wider selection of colors. Use code WCSLEEP30 to get the deal.
Read more: The Best Electric Blankets (Are Surprisingly Stylish)
Quilted like a comforter and built for warmth and durability, this plush throw holds up beautifully against heavy use, making it a favorite among parents and pet owners alike. It’s the warmest throw blanket we recommend, ideal for snuggling up.
Other things to know: One of the heaviest throws we’ve tested. Plush side is made with polyester, which may shed microplastics in the laundry. One-year warranty for defects. 90-day return policy. Deal price is for the throw, but our promo code WCFEB works on all sizes.
Read more: The Best Throw Blankets
If aesthetics are as important to you as staying cool, this handsome metal fan is here to make a statement. It’s even more powerful than our top pick, with an oscillating base to help spread the breeze around. No squeaky fan noise, brooding detective, or fedora included — sorry!
Other things to know: More energy-intensive on its highest setting than our top pick, but ultimately won’t add that much to your electric bill. It can get a little loud, emitting a sort of propeller-like whine on its highest setting. Use promo code WCSLEEP73 .
Read more: The Best Fan
Made of finely woven jute, these quality flatweave rugs are a great natural-fiber option for high-traffic areas. Unlike thicker and bumpier jute rugs, it has a more delicate, flat appearance, and it can be layered.
Other things to know: It may arrive gently folded, but most creases faded after a couple of weeks. It may take some work to flatten the corners. Tip: We recommend opting for the premium rug pad with your purchase to make it softer underfoot and keep it in place. Use our exclusive code WCJUTE on all sizes and colors of the Hart jute rug. Listed deal price is for the 4-by-6-foot size.
Read more: The Best Area Rugs
Ideal for bathrooms shared by two or more people, this super-sturdy pole-style caddy keeps showers tidy without cluttering the area around your showerhead. Its four adjustable shelves are attached to a tension rod that extends from five to nine feet and locks into place.
Other things to know: OXO claims the anodized aluminum finish will never rust. More expensive than a hanging caddy. It's easy to install and clean. It comes with OXO’s lifetime guarantee — a reassurance we appreciate given this item’s price. The deal price is reflected in cart.
Read more: The Best Shower Caddy
Powerful, quiet, and easy to clean, this smart humidifier is one of the few ultrasonic models we've tested that doesn't over-humidify a room. It offers warm-mist capabilities, Wi-Fi connectivity, and a convenient top-filling water tank.
Other things to know: The base has some annoying nooks and crannies to clean around. We’ve seen some owner complaints about the onboard humidity controls. A smart humidifier might still seem sort of silly and excessive, especially if you have privacy concerns. Like most ultrasonic models, you’ll need to use distilled or filtered water, or else it will leave a fine mineral dust throughout the room. Street price has risen drastically over the past few years.
Read more: The Best Humidifier
A gift that brightens even the most mundane moments, this surprisingly squishy duck light doesn’t just illuminate a dark room — it also serves as a disaffected desktop companion. Its flexible orange legs can prop up a tablet or phone, too.
Other things to know: At Wirecutter HQ, we’ve dubbed this fella the “existential-crisis duck light.” Three brightness levels. USB-rechargeable battery. Made from plastic and silica gel. Portable.
Read more: The 34 Best Gifts for Co-Workers
Testers found these hand-stitched suede ankle booties to be comfortably airy and breathable, even with their insulating shearling lining. We also found the streamlined, pull-on design and slightly upturned “nose” easy to step into and surprisingly attractive.
Like the women’s style above, these flexible, leather-soled booties fully cover the feet. They’re warm without being stifling, and they’re built to last.
Other things to know: Made for indoor wearing only. Your feet may get sweaty. Insoles will get matted down over time and eventually wear out (but L.L.Bean sells replaceable inserts). Women’s sizes 5 to 11 and men’s sizes 7 to 14. One-year warranty. Use code WCSLEEP15 . Qualifies for free shipping.
Read more: The Best Slippers
Everyone deserves some “me time,” and you’ll truly feel pampered while relaxing in the cozy embrace of this plush cotton robe. It’s absorbent enough to dry you off after a shower and comfortable enough for winding down or just lounging around on lazy days.
Like the women’s style above, this indulgently soft robe is easy to move around in, with a roomy fit, a relaxed shawl collar, generous patch pockets, and a tie belt.
Other things to know: It has a versatile weight, but we found the thick material to be a little too warm in hotter months, especially after a steamy shower. The terry loses some of its plushness after heavy use (though this is to be expected). Take care to separate your laundry if you buy a bolder color. Women’s sizes XS to XXL and men’s sizes S to XXL. Use our exclusive code WIRECUTTERVDAY to get the deal price.
Read more: The Best Robes
This sexy, comfortable take on the everyday brief is made from lightweight, stretchy, high-quality pima cotton that feels great on the skin. Pretty enough for date night with enough coverage for daily wear, the flattering high-cut leg creates a smoother, more elongating line.
Other things to know: Instructions say hand-wash only, but we’ve been machine-washing it on a warm regular cycle (and putting it in the dryer on medium) for months with no issues. Sizes XS to XXL; limited sizes still available. Pricey for an everyday cotton brief, though this deal helps. Add two pairs to cart and use code WCSLEEP2026 to get the deal price.
Read more: The Best Women’s Underwear
These endlessly reusable silicone nipple covers comfortably stay put using your body heat. They work for a variety of outfits and scenarios, easily blending under clothes thanks to their large diameter, their whisper-thin edges, and their range of skin-tone-matching shades.
Other things to know: Press the covers onto your breasts with the palm of your hand for 10 to 20 seconds to heat them up and activate their sticking power. Ideal for use with tight tops or activewear. Available in three sizes and skin-tone shades. Not cheap, but Cakes runs sales often. Code WIRECAKES auto-applies.
Read more: The Internet Claims These Cakes Silicone Nipple Covers Work Like Magic. We Actually Agree.
Not only does Eyebuydirect offer both prescription and non-prescription blue-light-blocking eyewear, but it’s also the only option we recommend that carries two size options. The site has a huge selection of consistently high-quality frames and glasses, plus reliable customer service.
Other things to know: Shorter return policy than most (14 days) and mandatory lens upgrades for stronger prescriptions. Charges for a glasses case (most companies provide a case and a lens-cleaning cloth by default). Use code WIRECUTTER35 for 35% off nearly all lenses and frames, plus free shipping.
Read more: The Best Blue-Light Blocking Glasses
They’re silly in a good way, taking the classic Crocs shape and covering it in a snuggly faux shearling. But we found that these slippers also kept our feet comfy, secure, and cushioned. They make a delightful gift.
Other things to know: Kinda ridiculous — and that’s precisely what we love about them. Lack the substantial construction and feel of many of our other picks. The traction isn’t magnificent. Available in sizes women’s 4 to men’s 13. On sale in black.
Read more: The Best Slippers
Chic and compact, this handy little reading light boasts the most light customization of all our picks and works with both paperback and hardcover books. It’s also a breeze to use and adjust, with a slim clip and a power indicator to monitor battery life.
Other things to know: Small, and buttons can be a bit too sensitive when you’re adjusting clip placement. Some owners have reported issues; see our guide for details. Use our promo code WIRECUTTER01 to get the deal price on select colors.
Read more: The Best Reading Light
Combining the best high-end LCD tech and our favorite smart TV platform, Google TV, the QM6K punches well above its weight in price and picture. With the longer five-year warranty from Costco on the Pro, you’ve got yourself an excellent deal.
Other things to know: Falls short of higher-tier TVs in color vividness. Off-angle viewing isn’t great. The Pro model can do higher VRR, has pretuned speakers, and offers better reflection handling. Pro Bundle includes a three-year Allstate protection plan, for five total years of coverage. Costco membership required.
Read more: The Best 4K TV on a Budget
This red-light mask was name-checked again and again by dermatologists we spoke to, and we found it to be powerful, pliant, and portable. Its near-infrared light penetrates skin more deeply than others.
Other things to know: With just two nominally stretchy straps for use across the back of the head, the fit is just okay, not great. Our priciest pick. Pliant silicone interior attracts lint. There’s no way to know how much charge is left; it just shuts down when out of power. Use our exclusive code WCSLEEP .
Read more: The Best Red-Light Device
Dry skin, frizzy hair, frazzled cuticles — this nourishing French dry oil soothes them all. It’s non-greasy, it absorbs quickly, and it smells amazing, with notes of orange blossom, magnolia, and vanilla. Testers really appreciated the roll-on format.
Costco membership required
Other things to know: Apply sparingly, or the gleam will turn into a slick. Costco membership required. Pack of two.
Read more: The Best French Pharmacy Products
Treat yourself to an at-home spa day and quench your dry winter skin with this rubbery algae sheet mask. It’s formulated with proven hydrators like glycerin, sodium hyaluronate, and hyaluronic acid, and we were delighted to find that it stays put, even while sipping your coffee.
Other things to know: You will look like a member of the Blue Man Group for the 30-40 minutes you need to leave this mask on. There’s a two-step application process: first apply the ampoule (serum) to skin, then put on the sheet mask. We’ve seen it drop a few bucks lower, but this is still a great discount.
Read more: Sheet Masks Don’t Do Very Much. We Love These Anyway.
Do you think the best part of waking up is fresh espresso in your cup? This all-in-one machine’s foolproof design includes a built-in grinder to ensure your coffee is just the right level of fine every time, and though pricey, it brews café-quality drinks that make it worth the splurge.
Other things to know: The built-in grinder isn't as fine-tuned as standalone espresso-focused grinders, and it can be messy. The portafilter size makes it harder to dial in your shots and can’t accommodate larger doses. The first shot tends to be a little cool. Two-year warranty.
Read more: The Best Espresso Machine for Beginners
This effortlessly accessible machine offers a little something for every coffee connoisseur and has an easy learning curve, to boot. It can brew a smooth espresso or an 8-ounce cup of coffee that beats anything we’ve tried from a Keurig.
Other things to know: Cups are unstable on drip tray. We didn’t love the coffee, but it was still a big step up from Keurig coffee. Exclusively uses Vertuo pods, which cost more than Original Nespresso pods. One-year warranty. At the deal price in gray.
Read more: The Best Nespresso Machine
With a classic flared-lip shape, slick and durable nonstick coating, and excellent heat distribution, this quality frying pan will be a staple in your kitchen for years to come. It’s oven-safe up to 400 degrees Fahrenheit, and our testers appreciated its excellent maneuverability and comfortable handle.
Costco membership required, price includes $3 shipping
Other things to know: This is the larger version of our longtime top pick. Not compatible with induction cooktops. The rivets that secure the handle to the pan don’t have a nonstick coating. Limited lifetime warranty. Costco membership required. Deal price includes $3 shipping.
Read more: The Best Nonstick Pan
Editor’s note: The photo at the top of this article may reflect previous deals that are no longer valid and have been removed. Check out our Deals page for more great discounts on Wirecutter’s expert-approved picks.
This article was edited by Janie Campbell and Nathan Burrow.
Getting your holy-grail beauty products for less isn’t as impossible as it sounds. We’ve unlocked the best ways to strategize ahead of your next shopping trip.
Here’s what the Wirecutter Deals team is looking for when they hunt for the best prices on Wirecutter picks every day of the week.
When is the best time to buy a mattress? Our experts weigh in on when to buy.
I am a writer whose coverage areas include deals on Wirecutter’s style, beauty, home, and gifts sections. I also cover productivity apps and subscription shopping memberships.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).