article_id: nyt_73
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7027926/2026/02/07/rangers-artemi-panarin-trade-extension-match/
title: Rangers insider: Answering lingering questions about Artemi Panarin trade
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Why didn't the Rangers match the Kings' extension, and what was the rush? Here's what I'm hearing. Sarah Stier / Getty Images
NEW YORK — In the aftermath of Wednesday’s trade that sent Artemi Panarin on the cross-country journey from New York to Los Angeles, there are two questions I’ve heard most frequently from Rangers fans who are understandably going through a rash of emotions.
1. Why didn’t the Rangers offer Panarin the two-year, $11 million average annual value extension he just signed with the Kings?
2. What was the rush to get this done before the Olympic break?
Let’s start with the first one, which requires going back to the summer for full context.
At some point before the start of the 2025-26 season, New York approached Panarin’s agent Paul Theofanous to discuss the possibility of a team-friendly extension. It was described by a league source as less of a formal offer and more of a conversation to lay out possible parameters and point to some comps they could explore. There were a few different paths, whether it be stretching the total value out, as the Florida Panthers did with Brad Marchand (six years, $5.25 million AAV), going for shorter term but higher AAV, as L.A. did with Panarin’s new teammate Anze Kopitar (two years, $7 million AAV), or landing somewhere in the middle, as the Toronto Maple Leafs did with John Tavares (four years, $4.38 million AAV).
None of those options appealed to Panarin, who was finishing up a seven-year, $11.64 million AAV deal and was not interested in the type of hometown discount the Rangers were proposing. He took it as an indication that New York team president and general manager Chris Drury wasn’t all that determined to continue the relationship .
“We talked about a contract a little bit, but I feel like their offer just said, ‘We’re not sure if we want you or not,’” Panarin said candidly on Thursday’s Zoom call with reporters. “That’s why I’m not signed.”
It got quiet from there, with the Russian winger telling The Athletic in November that there was “not much right now” in terms of negotiations. As the season progressed and the losses piled up, it became increasingly clear that the Rangers were preparing to move in a different direction.
It was a fairly logical conclusion from their perspective. New York’s sputtering roster needs to get younger, and with Panarin turning 35 early next season, he doesn’t fit those plans.
Both sides recognized that a divorce was likely, but Drury’s sending of his “retool” letter on Jan. 16 sealed it. He met with Panarin that same day to inform the team’s leading scorer for seven straight seasons that they would not be making any contract offer and wanted to work with him on a trade.
Panarin, with the power of a full no-movement clause and the guidance of an aggressive agent, grabbed the reins from there. He relayed his preference to sign an extension with any acquiring team, even if it meant passing up a potential bidding war that could have driven up his price as the top free agent on the market this summer.
“I don’t like to switch teams back and forth,” Panarin explained. “I played already with three teams in the NHL. I have two kids, a dog, a wife. … It’s just too much stuff. And also, I feel like I don’t want to be rented for a couple months, and then go somewhere else. I’m just looking for a team who wants me and who can sign me right away.”
There was “a long list of teams” who showed interest, as Drury described , but now that the dust has settled, it appears only a small handful were seriously considered.
Theofanous maneuvered to gain leverage, which meant soliciting offers from teams he probably knew Panarin wouldn’t sign off on. It was an attempt to spur competition and convince GMs from the places he wanted to go to add extra dollars. It also created an element of confusion and smoke-screening that kept everyone guessing — many of those GMs included.
The expectation — not just from the Rangers, but widely around the league — was that Panarin was seeking a four- or five-year deal. He said as much on Thursday, noting that his two-year contract with the Kings was “not what I was looking for.”
There were higher offers from at least a few teams. The Washington Capitals had one of them, according to a league source. So, too, did the Seattle Kraken, per Sportsnet’s Elliotte Friedman. Others, such as the Carolina Hurricanes and Utah Mammoth, were involved to some degree and have the salary cap space to fit an extension.
It ultimately didn’t matter. After a week or two of Theofanous pushing the envelope, Panarin decided to take the best he could get from one of his handpicked teams. Multiple league sources believe his list included both Florida clubs, the Panthers and Lightning, but it seems Panarin’s interest was stronger than theirs due to cap constraints and other hurdles. There was a period in the final days when L.A. backed off, as well, which Panarin admitted “made me nervous.” That may have worked in Kings GM Ken Holland’s favor, helping him seal the deal once they came back to the table in the final 24 hours or so.
Panarin wasn’t willing to waive his NMC without some kind of extension in place, but his desire to be in L.A. superseded the pursuit of more years or dollars.
“Because I wanted to play only for the Kings, I didn’t have many options,” he said.
The Rangers weren’t given a chance to match the two-year, $22 million offer, according to a league source, nor would they have. Panarin was seeking longer term when they initially spoke last summer and only accepted it from L.A. after the proverbial ship had sailed with New York.
The context changed over time for a variety of reasons, including the reality of the Rangers’ situation. It’s a pretty big leap to assume that Panarin was willing to endure an extended period of losing at this stage of his career, especially after New York told him they were ready to move on.
He dictated what happened from there and operated strictly in his own interests, which is fully his right. That brings us to question No. 2 …
As one executive from another team pointed out, the NMC is all about what the player makes of it. There have been several instances in which the player identified a few acceptable destinations, allowing that GM to pick whichever one offered the best deal. That was not the case here.
While Panarin explored multiple options, he eventually chose one and informed the Rangers hours before Wednesday’s 3 p.m. roster freeze. That stripped Drury of any negotiating power. He had spoken to Holland in advance and was able to extract 20-year-old forward Liam Greentree, who was widely considered the No. 1 prospect from a Kings’ system that isn’t exactly stocked with high-end talent. But settling for a conditional third-round pick as the other piece was an undeniable letdown.
Did Drury have any recourse? Letting Panarin walk as a UFA would have been a worst-case scenario, but a few different league sources questioned whether telling L.A. this package wasn’t enough and continuing to grind for more in the lead-up to the March 6 trade deadline may have resulted in a slight boost of the return.
It’s a fair question. As one league source put it, time usually works to the advantage of the selling team. Buyers get desperate as the deadline approaches, so why was Drury unwilling to run down the clock?
Here’s what I’ve gathered on that. For starters, it very much sounds like Panarin’s side wanted the trade done so he could use the break to settle into his new home and acclimate to his new team. Holland said on the “Frankly Hockey” podcast that Drury called him on Sunday and expressed urgency to complete the deal before the Olympics, labeling it “a time crunch.” The Rangers were worried that letting nearly three weeks go by might drive Panarin to pull back or change his mind entirely. Panarin hinted as much when he said, “I was not ready to pick a team where I don’t want to go. I (would) probably go to Russia if L.A. doesn’t give me anything.”
He could have been bluffing — he’s pretty good at blurring the lines between joking and being serious — but we’d heard that threat floated before Panarin put it on the record. A long shot, sure, but I don’t sense New York was looking to take that chance.
Another factor that a couple of league sources felt should be considered is the Rangers trying to repair a damaged player relations reputation. They had multiple players leave on bad terms last season, a few of whom either publicly or privately expressed that they were mistreated on the way out. There’s a perception that the organization is sensitive to that and didn’t want to create more ill feelings with Panarin or send the wrong message to an already dejected locker room.
Should Drury have disregarded those concerns in an attempt to squeeze a little more out of the Kings? There’s a case to be made, but it’s hard to criticize his previous heavy-handed tactics while also asking him to be more ruthless.
At the very least, he was upfront with Panarin about his intentions. And while I’ve seen some argue that telegraphed what the Rangers were trying to do and contributed to the underwhelming return, I don’t know if I’m fully buying it. Other teams didn’t need a letter to know that this team was going to be a seller. All they had to do was look at the Eastern Conference standings, where New York sits at the bottom by a healthy margin. I’ve also heard that the decision to scratch Panarin from the lineup starting on Jan. 28 came after the Rangers were told Theofanous was getting closer in his talks with other teams. At the time, many — myself included — were questioning whether it was worth it to continue playing Panarin and risk injury. That’s another example of it being hard to have it both ways.
No matter which strategy you prefer or angle you take, Drury was at the mercy of both Panarin and Holland — and neither showed him much.
Perhaps waiting could have turned the conditional third-rounder into a second (which will happen anyway if the Kings win a playoff series), but what incentive did Holland have to do that other than help Drury save face? If you were the Kings GM and knew Panarin was only going to waive to come to your team, would you budge?
Here’s how one league source explained the Rangers’ disadvantaged position from an outside perspective.
“You can spend a few weeks pretending you might not do it, but if you know you’re going to cave in the end, then all you end up doing is demonstrating to people that what you say doesn’t necessarily mean anything.”
So while, yes, this was yet another example of losing a core player without getting enough in return, which is part of the reason the Rangers are in this mess in the first place, there weren’t any surefire alternatives here. Drury has made plenty of missteps that warrant criticism — which we’ve detailed extensively — but a thorough analysis of the Panarin situation leads me to believe this was a very difficult corner for anyone to back out of.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Vincent Z. Mercogliano is a Senior Writer for The Athletic covering the New York Rangers. He previously covered the team for The Journal News/lohud.com and the USA TODAY Network. The Hofstra University graduate is also the on-air Rangers analyst for SNY TV.