article_id: nyt_74
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/sleep-essentials-packing/
title: The Sleep Essentials That Wirecutter Experts Pack for Every Trip
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Elissa Sanci is a senior writer who has reported on label makers, tumblers, and more. She once dumped glitter in her car to test handheld vacuums.
You don’t have to re-create your bedroom at home in order to get a good night’s sleep while you’re traveling. To make an unfamiliar place feel more comfortable, you simply have to remove some obstacles. And a few tried-and-true essentials can help you fall asleep faster, stay asleep longer, and wake up ready for the day.
Our journalists have tested hundreds of sleep products and logged countless nights on the road. And to help them sleep soundly when they’re away from home, they’ve come to rely on a few key bits of advice and some easy-to-pack items.
From noise-blocking fixes to small upgrades that take up very little space in a carry-on, these essentials help our journalists fall asleep — and stay asleep — when they’re snoozing anywhere other than their own beds.
Even in a hotel room that has heavy black-out curtains, the red blink of a smoke detector or the glow of an alarm clock will inevitably disrupt the darkness. If even the faintest trace of light can keep you awake at night, a reliable sleep mask is a non-negotiable travel must-have.
Soft, structured, and contoured, this mask stays on all night and prevents any light from seeping through.
Sleep editor Christina Colizza keeps a spare Mzoo Sleep Mask in her toiletry case so she doesn’t have to remember to pack it before a trip. The soft, cushioned mask transforms the world into complete darkness the moment you pull it on. And because the eyecups have gaps, this one is ideal for people who prefer a little space between the mask and their eyes.
This mask has a silky exterior, a flat design, and an adjustable strap. It fits almost any face shape, but it can put pressure on the eyes.
Travel writer Kyle Fitzgerald said he brings his lightweight Alaska Bear Natural Silk Sleep Mask everywhere he goes, “just in case.” If you prefer a more traditional option, this mask might be a better fit than the Mzoo. It has a flat design, so it fits nearly all face shapes and nose types, and it does a decent job of blocking out light.
When you travel, silence isn’t always guaranteed. That’s why our sleep and travel writers consider a pair of comfy earplugs to be a necessity for trips.
These tiny wireless earbuds sound great, block noise, and can play customizable preloaded sounds or stream audio from your Bluetooth device. And their cushioned wings make them comfortable for side sleepers to wear too.
Use promo code MMSF88
Writer Shaena Montanari recently brought the Soundcore Sleep A20 (a tiny pair of sleep earbuds we recommend) on a work trip to Las Vegas. “It was a good move, as the guy in the next room kept getting up at 4 a.m.,” she said, adding that he loudly took calls and blasted music. The Sleep A20s blocked it all out. In addition to dampening noise, these wireless earbuds can also play soothing sounds to help you fall (and stay) asleep.
These reusable silicone earplugs provide the best balance of noise reduction and comfort, and they come in a convenient carrying case.
You don’t need to go high-tech to block out disruptive noises. When she travels, Christina uses a pair of reusable Loop Quiet 2 earplugs, a pick in our guide to earplugs for sleeping . They’re made with flexible silicone, so they’re comfy enough to wear all night. And they’re also great at blocking ambient noise and loud snoring.
A pick since 2017, these disposable earplugs significantly blocked noise in our controlled testing. And panelists said that of the foam earplugs we tested, these were the most comfortable and the easiest to insert.
Christina also likes to keep a bag of disposable Mack’s Slim Fit Soft Foam Earplugs in her toiletry kit, just in case her traveling companions need them. These earplugs are made with squishy foam, so they’re easy to compress and insert into the ear canals.
While some people need complete silence to sleep, others rely on the hum of white noise to mask the unfamiliar sounds that can keep them awake.
This affordable personal fan has a flexible tripod base, so you can attach it practically anywhere. But it isn’t the most durable or powerful fan.
When travel and outdoor writer Trey French goes car camping , he always brings a rechargeable fan. A whirring fan encourages airflow, and it also provides enough sound to mute “the mysterious sounds of the night,” he said. The rechargeable Amacool Battery Operated Fan is perfect for travel. This one is small and compact, and it has flexible tripod legs, so it’s easy to mount to a car’s head rests or a hotel headboard.
This app offers an integrative, collaborative approach to mindfulness meditation and mental-health care. And it includes access to an AI chatbot for real-time support and reflection.
Use promo code WIRECUTTER
If you don’t want to bring an extra gadget, you can try Headspace . It’s primarily a meditation app , but Kyle likes to take advantage of its sleep offerings when he’s traveling. Headspace has a range of sleep music and soundscapes, including all varieties of white noise. When he’s on the road, Kyle usually toggles on the eight-hour loop of green noise. He especially likes that he’s able to access the audio even in areas with no service.
Starched, stiff hotel bedding can be rough on your skin and your hair. To make sure she has a soft place to rest her face at night (and to preserve her blowout), travel editor Ria Misra always packs a silk pillowcase in her bag.
This smooth, weighty pillowcase is quite durable. And even though some customers have been disappointed by the company’s customer service, we have not had any issues.
Silk is a gentle material that absorbs less moisture from the skin and hair than percale cotton. So using a silk pillowcase can help combat frizzy hair and dry skin. We particularly like the Lilysilk 25 Momme Oxford Envelope Luxury Pillowcase . And writer Caira Blackwell said this lustrous case gets more comfortable to sleep on as you wash it.
After a long travel day, gentle movement can be a great way to reset before bed. “To maintain my daily rhythm, I prioritize an evening workout,” Trey said.
Travel editor Christine Ryan always brings a travel yoga mat along on vacation. “Being able to do a gentle, restorative wind-down practice can help with sleep,” she explained. The JadeYoga Voyager Mat is a good one: It’s small, lightweight, and easy to tuck into a carry-on. And while it doesn’t provide as much cushioning as a standard yoga mat, it’s a great stand-in for traveling.
This article was edited by Maxine Builder and Sofia Sokolove.
I cover a little of everything, from travel gadgets and car-organizing tools to label makers and reusable tumblers. I have an affinity for testing the buzzy products you’ve probably seen clogging your social media feeds — my goal is to figure out which trending items are actually worth your time, and which are a waste of money. I also talk to everyday experts, like firefighters, nurses, and chefs, about the unexpected essentials they use to make their jobs easier.
by Geoffrey Morrison and Sabrina Imbler
This travel pillow is so great you won’t even care if you look silly wearing it.
by Kerry Davis McGuinness
by Claire Wilcox and Sam Schild
The plush, cozy REI Co-op Siesta Hooded 20 Sleeping Bag is our pick for car campers. We also have picks for backpackers, couples, and more.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).