article_id: nyt_75
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/travel-guide/
title: The Best Travel Gear and Accessories
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
Black Diamond has updated the headlamp we recommend for travelers , the Wiz; we’re testing the new version and will report back soon.
Traveling well can be one of life’s great pleasures, whether you’re alone or with family and friends.
But what does it mean to travel well? We’d say that along with traveling safely (of course), traveling well involves avoiding hassle, carrying a single bag (if possible), and bringing only the necessities.
“Traveling well is a fine balance between finding inspiration in the unknown while being grounded in something,” said Wirecutter founder Brian Lam. “Sometimes that is a memory of home, a family, a significant other, friends, etc. Sometimes it’s just the familiar, reliable stuff in your bag.”
Over the past decade, we’ve spent hundreds of hours researching and testing dozens of products to find the most dependable items that will help you travel well. On top of that, we sought the advice and wisdom of Doug Dyment, author and creator of OneBag — a traveling businessman and public speaker, he has logged millions of miles over the past few decades — as well as travel-gear reviewer Eytan Levy, the Snarky Nomad.
And we relied heavily on the experiences of Wirecutter staff, an especially mobile group of individuals. Our staffers have worked remotely from every continent except Antarctica — the five most frequent flyers among us travel about half a million miles in any given (normal) year.
After hundreds of hours of research and 1,500 miles behind the wheel, we’ve singled out the gear that’s absolutely essential for your next journey on the open road.
A well-packed bag is one that contains less than you think you need but everything you actually need. If possible, fitting everything into one carry-on and personal item will give you more freedom compared to checking a bag or two. You’ll be glad you did if (and when) things don’t go according to plan.
While carry-on-only isn’t feasible (or advisable) for every trip — especially extended business trips or weddings where you need multiple outfits to maintain appearances — if in doubt, it’s better to cut.
This spinner carry-on offers the best balance of size, value, reliability, and durability, with high-end details. It’s backed by a lifetime warranty.
Since 2015, we’ve researched several dozen suitcases and gone hands-on with the 67 most promising candidates in a variety of tests — including having active flight attendants test bags for us in a fake plane fuselage in their training facility. We determined that for most people the Travelpro Platinum Elite Carry-On Spinner offers the best balance of features, durability, and price for most flyers who log less than 25,000 miles annually.
It features smooth-rolling, user-replaceable wheels; solid and comfortable, telescoping handles; and a hard-wearing nylon exterior propped up by a solid internal chassis.
The Elite only improves on past iterations in the Platinum line by reducing the size of the stowed handle (which used to jut out about an inch) and adding a second zippered, exterior pocket for easy access on the go and a USB pass-through extension that lets you insert your own battery pack for charging your phone. And at 7.8 pounds when empty, this carry-on bag is about half a pound lighter than its predecessor.
Compared with other bags in this price range, you also get surprisingly high-end components and a warranty that covers anything, even airline damage, for the life of the bag (as long as you register the suitcase within 120 days of purchase, which is easy to do on any smartphone).
If you fly more than 25,000 miles a year, invest in a bag with unique features, superior details, and plenty of expandable room. This manufacturer guarantees your satisfaction.
If you fly more than 25,000 miles annually and you’re willing to invest in a higher-quality product, we recommend the Briggs & Riley Baseline Essential 22-Inch Carry-On Expandable Spinner.
It can fit more clothing than any bag we tested, thanks to a cavernous interior and clever expansion and compression system that can adjust to variable levels beyond open and shut.
Over a five-year period before the pandemic, Wirecutter’s founder, Brian Lam, put more than 150,000 miles on his. His only complaint was that longer pants will need an extra fold, or to be rolled. In taller bags, pants will only need to be folded over once.
The Allpa’s clamshell design makes organizing your things simple. The strap design lets you easily wear this durable bag on your back or carry it in your hand while you’re on the move.
This bag was built with photographers in mind, but most travelers will appreciate its easy accessibility and clever tuck-away straps, and the elegant way the bag expands and contracts depending on how much you’ve packed. The accessory cubes cost extra, though.
We spent six months testing 22 bags, and in the end we chose two as our top picks for travelers determined to never check luggage again: the Cotopaxi Allpa 35L (for most trips) and the larger Peak Design Travel Backpack 45L . Both bags are exemplary carry-on travel backpacks that are designed for comfort, durability, and organization.
The Cotopaxi Allpa 35L features an easy-to-pack clamshell design and highly adjustable straps that make it a great all-around bag for any traveler who’s dedicated to packing light, or for a smaller person who wants less to carry. Handles on all four sides of this bag make it easy to grab no matter where you’ve stowed it, and the Allpa’s straps are contoured to comfortably fit people who have large or small chests. It’s not a specifically gendered design, but our female tester noticed the improvement right away. The most recent version of the Allpa 35L has a handle pass-through that lets you attach it to carry-on luggage, as well as a stretchy mesh water-bottle pocket.
The bag is protected by a full lifetime warranty and has the build quality to back that up. Its front panel is made of a waterproof, TPU-coated 1,000-denier polyester (a strong fabric covered in a flexible plastic coating), which means you can lay it on its back in a wet field or in gravel without worrying about moisture soaking through or jagged edges ripping the fabric. The rest of the paneling is made with 1,680-denier ballistic nylon, which feels similar to a strong canvas but with a more prominent weave. After eight years of testing, this single backpack (plus a personal item to store under the seat) has replaced nearly every travel bag or piece of luggage that Kit Dillon, Wirecutter’s senior staff writer who covers luggage, uses.
One caveat: The Allpa has a minimal amount of administrative organization — places to keep pens and papers, spaces to hold passports and boarding passes, and so forth — which is where the personal item comes in handy (see below).
The larger Peak Design Travel Backpack 45L is the Swiss Army knife of backpacks: adjustable, customizable, and (if you spring for the extra cubes and organizers) an almost perfect system for a photographer or gearhead on the move. Most bags’ expanding mechanisms aren’t worth the extra zipper they’re built on, and they look about as attractive as a boiled ham splitting out of its plastic packaging. Not so with the Peak Design: It looks just as good fully packed at 45 liters as it does compressed to a 30-liter daypack. You can access the bag through a back panel, which doubles as a computer and tablet pouch, as well as through a front one, if you unzip the pass-through divider. You can also get into the main compartment via two wing-like trapezoidal flaps that run along each side of the pack. In its natural shape, the Travel Backpack holds 35 liters, but an expansion zipper lets the bag swell to 45 liters.
If you want to use the bag as a daypack, you fold in the top corners and snap them down, reducing the bag’s volume to a slim 30 liters. It still feels larger than a normal daypack, but we think that’s a small compromise for the ability to use one backpack as both your travel bag and your daily explorer. The bag itself consists of 400D nylon and polyester fabrics — it feels tough, but not as tough as the Cotopaxi Allpa. As for flaws, it is expensive, especially if you commit to the entire system of packing cubes and camera cubes . The adjustable design and multiple zippers do add complexity, and complexity adds potential weaknesses, though Peak Design covers all of its bags with a lifetime warranty.
Finding the right bag is a personal choice, and no single bag will appeal to everyone. That’s why we have picks in our full review of carry-on travel bags that can double as traveling offices , and bags that are easy to carry while you’re walking long distances .
This bag combines the versatility and toughness of a canvas-and-leather briefcase with the organization and capacity of a small daypack.
As the name suggests, “personal items” are very, well, personal, and no one bag will work for all travelers. Our favorites include the WaterField Air Porter Carry-On Bag , which shines as a tech organizer that still has enough room to also hold a change of clothes. And it’s still good-looking enough to carry from the plane to the office without raising an eyebrow.
This classic carryall has luxurious touches, and it holds more than any bag of its type we tested (its capacity is on a par with that of our rollerboard pick).
If the Air Porter is too businessy (or pricey) for your taste, you may like the Monos Metro Duffel , a luxuriant shoulder bag with detailed organization and add-ons made specifically for simplifying travel. See our full guide to underseat luggage for still more options.
If you need to pack more stuff than a carry-on and a personal item can hold, our first piece of advice would be to reconsider whether you need that extra outfit “just in case.” But you’ll have times when you need to travel with several pairs of shoes, formalwear, a winter coat, special equipment (like diving or camping gear), or all of the above. In these cases, there’s no way to avoid checking a bag.
Comfortable, adjustable, and carry-on capable, the Farpoint has everything we needed for a week, or even months, of travel.
Comfortable, adjustable, and carry-on capable, the Fairview has everything we needed for a week, or even months, of travel.
(deal on blue or black)
If you’re going somewhere where you’ll need to walk a lot (particularly if there’s dirt or cobblestone roads), we recommend a travel backpack . We like the Farpoint 55 and the sized-for-smaller-torsos Fairview 55 because they’re comfortable and have plenty of room to store, and separate, our essentials. The front of the main pack unzips like a suitcase, so you can easily fit and access a week’s worth of clothes and toiletries. The daypack, which attaches to the front of the larger pack, has room for camera gear, daily essentials, and a small laptop (via a built-in sleeve). It’s also easy to stow. The main pack’s straps can tuck behind a zippered flap, so they won’t catch on anything if you check your luggage.
These bags are made of a heavy-duty recycled polyester that stands up even to long trips–one of our testers has traveled with a Farpoint 55 for years, across dozens of countries for months at a time, without damaging it. If something does happen, though, Osprey has a lifetime warranty.
The bag provides a luxury feel at a reasonable price, with a capacity, warranty, and reliability that should suit most travelers. The 25-inch model should offer plenty of room for most people without going over airline weight limits.
If you don’t plan on walking around while carrying all your stuff, the Travelpro Platinum Elite Medium Check-In Spinner is our favorite piece of checked luggage for all of the same reasons we loved the carry-on size: It has excellent organizational features, it’s especially durable, and it has a better warranty than anything in its price range.
Simple and versatile, the basic duffel-bag design is flexible enough to work as a just-the-necessities carry-on or as your mobile home for a month-long adventure holiday.
This bag is the most versatile gear duffel we’ve found. It’s tough, water-resistant, and great for toting clothes and equipment in almost any travel scenario.
The Patagonia Black Hole Duffel (70 liters) is a true jack-of-all-trades: a sporty, water-resistant bag. Over the years, we’ve dragged, thrown, kicked, and carried multiple Patagonia Black Hole bags across most of the country, and they’ve never failed.
The exterior of the Black Hole is made of polyester ripstop that is laminated with a recycled thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU) to protect against abrasion and has a water-resistant coating. It’s the shell, and to some extent the soul, of the bag — without the TPU coating, the duffel loses much of its basic functionality.
You can carry the Black Hole at your side using the two handles or over your shoulder using the strap, or you can wear it as a backpack with its two padded straps. The Black Hole is available in three other sizes, too: 40 liters , 55 liters , and 100 liters . Patagonia has a highly regarded replacement and repair guarantee that we’ve tested many times without complaint.
If you plan on walking long distances and want multiple ways to carry your gear comfortably without standing out in a crowd, this bag is a great option.
The Peak Design Travel Duffel (35 liters) is perfect if you expect to walk a lot on your trips — touring cities, say, or doing some light adventuring — and you need a comfortable way to carry your stuff.
Like the Patagonia Black Hole, this Peak Design duffel is made to carry in your hand, on your back, or over your shoulder. However, you can also reconfigure the handle attachment points to turn the bag into a backpack. Many combo duffel-and-backpack designs rely on the handles’ serving double duty as backpack straps, which usually means they aren’t very good as either. Not so for the Travel Duffel.
Unlike several other backpack duffels we tested, the Travel Duffel positions its zipper against your back while you’re using it as a backpack (though you can’t feel the zipper at all). It’s a simple, seemingly obvious but rare design choice that lends more peace of mind when you’re walking down a busy street or absentmindedly taking in the sights.
The Travel Duffel features two zippered pockets on the side (with semi-hidden zippers) and two silicone-mesh pockets inside. The wings on the side of the bag fold out to extend the zipper path, which allows the duffel to open wider than most traditional designs; it’s a small feature, but one that makes your life just that much easier when you’re rummaging around. Along the outside edges of the duffel, Peak Design added a nylon frame, which helps the bag maintain its shape regardless of how full it is.
For the duffel’s exterior, Peak Design uses a 600D nylon fabric made from recycled materials with a C0 DWR water-repellent treatment. Though less durable than some DWR finishes, C0 treatments are made from non-fluorinated chemicals and considered more environmentally friendly. If this bag’s finish does wear out, it’s protected by Peak Design’s well-regarded lifetime warranty . (The bag also comes in three larger sizes: 50 liters , 65 liters , and 80 liters.)
If neither of these bags seems quite right for you, see our full guide to duffel bags for more options.
Most travelers probably don’t need a standalone garment bag, but sometimes you find yourself having to pack a single garment that requires special treatment. (In other words: wedding season.)
This classic garment bag offers better construction and finer details than most we’ve tested, plus it has a lifetime warranty you can trust. It can also safely store clothes long-term. However, it’s expensive for a bag made of synthetic materials.
The Briggs & Riley Classic Garment Bag is to some extent exactly as it sounds: a well-made bag, with a built-in hanging hook and an internal loop for attaching your hangers. It holds about two suits comfortably — three at a stretch — along with shirts and a few other things. Inside are two large pockets, but they aren’t really made for shoes; they might be better for ties and undershirts. Along the back of the bag is a large pocket for extra shirts.
The Briggs & Riley garment bag is made of sturdy ballistic nylon. Not only should the bag provide some resistance against stormy weather or abrasions, but it can also be used for long-term storage.
Briggs & Riley bags do cost more than many other garment bags we tested, but along with versatility you get an outstanding lifetime warranty promising free repair with no proof of purchase necessary. The higher cost is for peace of mind.
If you’re in need of more affordable suggestions, though, check our full guide to garment bags .
Rugged silicone and a metal cable mean this tag (which comes two to a pack) may well outlive your luggage. The brightly colored case displays its owner’s name but keeps other personal information out of sight.
A good luggage tag should be durable, simple to use, and discreet. Ultimately, a tag should allow someone to get your luggage back to you quickly and easily, and it should withstand the wear and tear of being thrown onto conveyor belts time and again. After researching the top-rated and best-selling models, reading existing luggage-tag reviews, and comparing fourteen tags , we recommend the Ovener Silicone Luggage Tag for most travelers because it’s the only one we’d trust to survive being smashed by other bags, jammed into walls, and generally abused by baggage handlers. It’s the most durable tag we tested, and it comes in a wide selection of colors to help any bag stand out from the rest.
The Ovener tag’s silicone body seems nearly indestructible and is available in a rotating selection of colors (you get two tags per pack). Whereas other tags also feature metal cables, this tag has a metal grommet to keep the cable from eventually wearing through the silicone case.
Should you lose your bag, the Ovener makes it easy for a Good Samaritan to find your contact information. To fully access the info card, you have to unscrew and remove the metal strap; this lets the card slide out of the case. Most luggage tags we tested secure their info card in this way. It isn’t a difficult or time-consuming process, but it is an extra step compared with using a tag that displays all of your information openly. Still, for anyone who wants to keep their contact information out of view, the extra step may be worth it.
AirTags leverage Apple’s huge network of devices to find a lost suitcase, and they’re impressively accurate in pinpointing an item’s precise location.
With store pickup (1st generation)
(1st generation, pack of four)
(1st generation, pack of four)
But why wait for that Good Samaritan? Bluetooth trackers let you monitor the location of whatever they’re attached to from a phone, tablet, or computer. For iPhone owners, Apple’s AirTag is an easy top pick. When the tracker is out of range of your phone, it’s designed to work in unison with other Apple devices, so there are nearly a billion devices constantly looking for lost items. No other tracker can compete with the broad scope and precision finding that an AirTag offers. And (so far) no other tracker provides a way for you to securely share your lost item’s location with third parties — such as the airline agent who is insisting that your bag is in Dallas when your phone is telling you it’s in Des Moines. ( As of January 2026 , some three dozen airlines around the world now support the location tracking into their systems. Last year, Google announced a similar program for its Find Hub tracking system that’s scheduled to launch in early 2026; so far, though, only five airlines — Aer Lingus, British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Iberia, and Singapore Airline — are listed as participating.)
Packing cubes could change your life. (Okay, maybe just your traveling life.) Packing cubes are basically bags to hold your clothes that you organize within your luggage. Though seemingly superfluous, they’re brilliant in action. If you imagine your suitcase as a dresser, you can think of these cubes as individual drawers: Put all your underwear and socks in one container, all your shirts in another, and your workout clothes in yet another. Then pull out only the cube you want. They make packing and repacking wonderfully simple.
Simple and solidly constructed, these packing cubes keep your bag organized while you’re traveling.
The three-piece Eagle Creek Pack-It Reveal Cube Set keeps a week’s worth of clothes organized and moves easily from suitcase to hotel dresser.
The full-size cube is great for shirts, shorts, and insulating layers. The half-cube and quarter-cube are perfect for underwear, socks, and other thin fabrics such as stockings or sleepwear. These cubes are made of 300-denier polyester (a strong fabric) and stay upright when empty, so they’re easy to pack. The Pack-It cubes’ windows are made of the tightest mesh link we tested — better for resisting snags — and the smooth zippers close easily around all corners, even when a cube is overstuffed.
The Eagle Creek cubes have the ability to unzip fully to allow full access to their contents while sitting in a dresser drawer. That means your clean clothes stay protected against some potentially dicey motel dressers. In 2024, Eagle Creek relaunched the line with a slight redesign, and using 100% recycled fabric. This new incarnation repels water better (in areas besides the mesh paneling), feels even sturdier than the previous version, and still carries a lifetime warranty . The price also increased, however.
These three cubes have the same shape as the Pack-It Reveal cubes, but they are somewhat water-resistant (to guard against spills) and weigh half as much, thanks to their lighter material.
Most travelers are likely to be well served by the Reveal set. But if you value lightness above all, the more expensive Eagle Creek Pack-It Isolate Cube Set is about 50% lighter than similar-size competitors. (The largest Isolate cube weighs 1.3 ounces; the same-size Eagle Creek Pack-It Reveal cube weighs just over 3 ounces.)
The updated-in-2024 Pack-It Isolate cube is made out of a semitranslucent, 100% recycled, 70-denier ripstop nylon. Previous iterations of this cube were made out of a thinner (50-denier) ripstop polyester, so we have less experience testing this new fabric, but so far it’s proven as durable and water-resistant as the cubes we tested for over five years with no issues. In fact, it’s now even stronger, though it weighs just as little. (The Isolate cubes carry the same lifetime warranty as the Reveal cubes.)
However, the Isolate design’s thin sides — which don’t allow the cubes to stand up on their own — make those cubes a bit more challenging to pack than the Reveal cubes.
Originally designed for reducing the bulk of lofty sleeping bags, compression sacks are stuff sacks modified with additional nylon end caps that can be pulled together by strings or straps to remove air and create a smaller, denser package that’s easier to pack. Most travelers use compression sacks to condense socks, underwear, and other stuff you don’t mind getting wrinkled into a package with half as much overall volume. For example, an 8- to 12-liter sack can compress a fleece jacket and a long-weekend’s worth of socks and underwear into something that fits in one hand. They also make a decent pillow in a pinch.
It has a full-length zipper on its side that allows access to the bag’s entire contents. However, it doesn’t compress as tightly as traditional designs.
Most compression sacks require you to empty out the stuff at the top to get to the stuff below it, but the side-zipper design on the Osprey StraightJacket allows access to the entire contents of the bag at once. The compression straps attach sideways, and are less likely to get tangled and twisted like on most compression sacks with lengthwise straps. It can also sit up on its own, and the handle design lets you break it out as a last minute carry-on to avoid an overweight-baggage fee. However, it doesn’t compress down as compactly as the traditional designs we tested so it’s not the best option if compression is your top priority.
GobiGear’s SegSac takes a different approach to solving the same access issue: It has four inner dividers that run the length of the sack in order to keep your socks separate from your underwear, winter accessories, towel, what have you. This means you don’t have to take out your T-shirts to get to your socks. Unlike the Osprey, it compresses just as much as a normal compression sack, but it loses points for versatility because the segmentation prevents it from handling large items like a down jacket or sleeping bag.
One Wirecutter colleague, writer Alexander Aciman, swears by plastic compression bags . They probably won’t last as long as the Osprey StraightJacket, but he has reused his — a 12-pack he found on Amazon — multiple times over the course of two years. Alex describes the bags as, essentially, large Ziploc-style bags with a one-way valve at the bottom. “After a few trips, I’ve learned that these bags work best when I haven’t egregiously overstuffed them,” he says. “For example, you can save more space in your suitcase by splitting up 10 T-shirts into two bags with five shirts each rather than putting all 10 into one bag. Overstuffing can make it hard to get all the air out, which defeats the purpose.”
Using compression bags of any kind does leave you prone to one pitfall: stuffing your suitcase or backpack so full that you incur an overweight-baggage fee . Before you leave home, you can just use a bathroom scale to confirm that your bag isn’t too heavy. But if you tend to shop while traveling, you might want to consider bringing a small luggage scale.
This luggage scale performed the best in our tests. It’s easy to hold and intuitive to use, and its margin of error was under a pound.
We tested six well-rated or often-recommended contenders head-to-head and found that the Travel Inspira Luggage Scale stood out. It had the smallest margin of error and was frequently as accurate as using a bathroom scale.
The Travel Inspira scale is also notably easy to use. Two buttons on the scale’s handle make the controls convenient to access: One turns on and tares the scale, while the other allows you to switch between pounds and kilograms.
The weight is clearly displayed on a backlit digital screen, and the device logs and locks in your number, so even after you put it down, you can still read the weight. The wide handle of the Travel Inspira scale makes it possible to lift with both hands, but you can also lift it with one hand.
The Travel Inspira scale’s biggest downside is that it’s powered by a non-rechargeable lithium battery. Because of rare instances in which lithium batteries explode, the TSA does not allow most lithium batteries in checked baggage , so you must pack this scale in your carry-on. But the manual and rechargeable models we tested weren’t nearly as accurate as the Travel Inspira scale.
When we first published this guide, this section addressed only toiletry kits and bottles, razors, and packable towels. The times, and traveling, became more complicated. One thing we've learned in the past few years is that face masks can be useful whenever you’re sick and don’t want to share your misery. Fortunately, compared with early 2020, medical-style N95s and KN95s (which many experts recommend as the best protection) are widely available. They’re easy to tuck into a bag, which we do now whenever we travel.
We’ve researched dozens of travel toiletry bags and dopp kits over the past several years, and we tested 23 of the top-rated contenders in our most recent round of tests. After packing and unpacking a week’s worth of travel-size toiletries, conducting spill tests, and living out of the top performers on the road, we have a few different picks that stand out thanks to their style, packability, and quality of construction.
This well-structured, water-resistant dopp kit has plenty of pockets to help organize your essentials and great visibility for finding them. A sturdy hook lets it double as a hanging bag, but this pouch doesn’t handle overpacking as well as some of our other picks.
The sleek, thoughtfully designed Peak Design Wash Pouch offers the best balance of space, organization, and ease of use of any bag we’ve tested. It opens like an accordion and divides into two main compartments. One side of the bag is big enough to hold three or four 3-ounce bottles or chunky items such as an electric razor. The other side has multiple open mesh pockets and elastic slots to keep nail clippers, tissues, or smaller bottles of serum or makeup in place. Testers particularly liked the magnetically closed toothbrush pocket that divides the bag in two, which doesn’t seal completely so moisture can evaporate.
This bag is made of recycled, 200-denier nylon and coated with durable water repellent (DWR), so it’s light, flexible, and water-resistant. (No water leaked in or out of this bag during tests, though a small amount leaked through the zipper, as it did with every bag we tested except one .) It has large zippers and reinforced pull tabs, and the body is structured with thin insulating foam to keep your items intact. The internal mesh pockets are coated in silicone, so it’s easier to wipe them clean than dealing with traditional mesh pockets. As a bonus, all pockets turn inside out for cleaning. The bag comes with a lifetime guarantee .
Although not a classic hanging bag, the Peak Design Wash Pouch comes with a sturdy metal hook that allows you to hang it on a towel rod or door handle and still access your things. The pouch has a 2.5-liter capacity, and we were able to comfortably fit a week’s worth of toiletries (including medication and cosmetics) inside, but it’s not a bag that handles overstuffing. If you’re packing one toiletry bag for the whole family, you might consider the L.L.Bean Personal Organizer Toiletry Bag, below.
This bag is inexpensive and sturdily constructed, and it holds enough to supply multiple users.
The L.L.Bean Personal Organizer (Medium) is a well-constructed, affordable option that’s big enough to carry toiletries for two or more people. With 6 liters of capacity, there’s plenty of space for packing full-size bathroom essentials to share among a group: We fit one full-size bottle each of shampoo, conditioner, shaving cream, and hair spray into this bag and still had room to add a hairbrush. And it’s loaded with storage features, so even with all those items, everything has its place. It has a wide handle, three external pockets, two interior waterproof zip pockets, a zip mesh pouch, and three small mesh pockets for taller toiletries.
For additional options, read our full review of the best toiletry bags and dopp kits to learn more about our picks and everything we tested.
These six TSA-friendly bottles are sturdy and smartly designed, dispensing liquids more precisely than any of the other bottles we tested.
Use promo code WCPOUCH
For traveling with liquids in your carry-on, the Sea to Summit set is your best bet. All six bottles conform to TSA size limitations; three of them can hold 3 ounces of liquid each, and three can hold 1.5 ounces each, for a total of 13.5 ounces. Despite the set’s name, the bottles themselves are made not of thermoplastic polyurethane — “TPU” refers to the zip pouch — but a high-density polyethylene material, much like what you’d see used in most plastic milk jugs. It has an almost-smooth, semi-transparent surface just textured enough that it’s not slippery when wet. The plastic is also flexible enough that you don’t have to squeeze very hard to get your shampoo or liquid soap or whatever going. An insert at the mouth of each bottle helps regulate the flow, and the screw tops prevent liquids from leaking in transit.
This classic razor’s three widely spaced blades provide the best balance of speed, smoothness, and safety. Its handle is comfortable and well designed, and replacement blades can be had for a fair price.
We researched more than 100 and tested more than 20 manual razors for our full razor guide , concluding that the Gillette Mach3 is our top pick for manual razors. Although the three blades require a little extra time for a closer shave, it performs comparably to the latest and greatest offerings for as little as half the price.
The Gillette Mach3 provides the best balance of speed, smoothness, and safety. The Mach3’s simple, round handle is easy to grip and maneuver, and its three blades offer a close shave without over-irritating the skin or getting clogged with hair. And the price of Mach3 blades — a little more than $2 per cartridge, whether you buy them online or in a store — came close to, or even beat, the pricing of shave-club rivals, and the Mach3 shaved better than those competitors.
This classic Venus is one of the easiest razors to grip and maneuver and its three-blade design keeps the blades remarkably free of hair.
Disposable razors (both the completely disposable and the replaceable-cartridge variety) are fine to take through airport security , and among them we like the Gillette Venus Smooth best for traveling. Although it’s now the runner-up pick in our guide to body razors — it was formerly the top pick — we believe that its simple aloe lubricating strips, which don’t become tacky when wet, make the Venus more travel friendly than our new top pick . Plus, as with any Venus model, the Smooth’s body is compatible with any other Venus head and many heads from Gillette’s facial razors, making replacement heads easier to find when you’re on the road.
The Smooth’s head has three blades separated by considerable slats of space, making it far easier to clean the head between strokes. The Smooth is intuitive to hold and secure to maneuver, thanks to a contoured handle with corrugated chevrons of rubber. Though our testers have a wide range of hand sizes, no one found the Smooth difficult to grasp. Despite the significant ribbing, it doesn’t feel too bulky. Gillette claims its razors have lasted for five weeks; we think one razor for a weeklong trip should be fine.
(Know that, confusingly, the Venus appears for sale on some retail sites under the name Venus Close and Clean or Venus Original. It’s the same razor. If you’re unsure which Venus model you’re looking at, check for the Smooth’s three blades and trademark sea-foam blue color.)
The PackTowl Personal Towel is lightweight, soft, absorbent, quick to dry, and odor-resistant.
We put 20 top-rated towels through a battery of tests including regular shower use, a trip to the beach, camping, and a 48-hour stay in a ziplock bag under the hot Hawaiian sun. After all was said and done, the Packtowl Personal Towel is still the best all-around travel towel for most people. In addition to being the softest lightweight towel we tested, it was more absorbent than competitors made of similar materials. It had the best odor-resisting abilities and comes with a convenient mesh carrying pouch. We also have alternate picks for ultralight and all-natural towels below.
Buying the right gear can help organize your existing travel kit, but it’s a red herring if your goal is better portability. “It’s mostly the clothing that allows you to reduce what you need to carry,” explains veteran traveller Eytan Levy, better known as the Snarky Nomad . That’s because clothing, which is very voluminous, makes up the bulk of what’s in your bag. He recommends traveling with basic-looking clothes because you can always buy or rent something nice in a pinch, whereas lugging around formalwear just in case will always be a pain. It also helps if you can avoid cotton and stick to merino and synthetic fabrics, which dry faster. This allows you to do laundry by hand in the sink as needed to reduce the amount of clothes you need to carry.
Travel underwear is typically thinner, stretchier, and more performance-oriented than cotton underwear, so it’ll dry faster, move with you better, and take up less space in your bag. A good pair of travel underwear will dry overnight after being hand-washed in the sink, or it can even — gasp — withstand back-to-back wear over a day or two. To find the best , we’ve tested 70 pairs since 2016 by wearing them while camping, hiking, road-tripping, playing sports, and, of course, traveling.
Durable, quick-drying, and relatively inexpensive, this soft-fabric version of ExOfficio’s time-tested Give-N-Go undies will get the job done for years.
The ExOfficio Give-N-Go 2.0 Sport Mesh 6″ Boxer Brief is the best men’s underwear for travel because it balances fit, comfort, odor-proofing, and value better than anything else we’ve tested.
The Sport Mesh fabric excels at breathing and wicking and has better odor-resistance than other fabrics. It feels soft on the inside and smooth on the outside so it slides against your pants instead of creating friction, reducing potential for chafing. It also features a sculpted crotch area that gives wearers some much-appreciated support, without feeling stifling.
These boxer briefs dry quickly, pack compactly, and weigh less than almost all the other boxer briefs we tried — basically they’re everything you’d want from a pair of excellent travel underwear.
This surprisingly quick-drying merino underwear is comfortable, smooth-fitting, and durable, but it isn’t available in lots of colors or sizes.
The Smartwool Women's Merino Bikini is versatile enough to go from a long travel day to an evening out on the town without stinking, bunching, or creating obvious lines under your clothes. Made from merino (88%) and nylon (12%), this underwear was more breathable and better at wicking sweat than nearly all of the other women’s underwear we tested.
It also dried nearly as quickly as the synthetic mesh underwear, making it a versatile and practical — yet still cute! — option for trips where you may be hand-washing your skivvies in the sink. However, you have only three muted colors to choose from, and the sizing goes up only as far as XL.
For more options, and to learn more about our picks and everything we tested, read our full guide to travel underwear .
If you’ve never traveled with merino wool socks, you’re missing out. These aren’t the scratchy wool socks your grandpa wore in the army; they are soft and stretchy ones that have natural sweat-wicking and odor-resisting properties that keep your toes comfortable under all conditions — even when wet. This combination of odor, moisture, and temperature regulations makes them ideal for traveling. "Because of its natural anti-bacterial properties, washing merino wool on a daily basis isn’t absolutely necessary,” explains Snarky Nomad , "after letting it air dry overnight while you sleep, it’ll seem brand new.” The only major downside is that merino tends to be a bit pricier than synthetic counterparts. But it’s a worthy trade-off, since you can go for longer with fewer pairs.
The best mix of comfort, durability, and cushioning in a versatile height.
The same great versatile sock as the women’s model, but in different color options and more sizes.
Darn Tough’s Light Hiker Micro Crew socks (both the men’s and women’s versions) have been our favorite hiking socks for years. Darn Tough made its name through its quality guarantee : “We knit a longer lasting sock that stays comfortable season after season. We’re able to guarantee them for life because we knit them ourselves. If yours ever rip or tear, we'll replace them free of charge.” Pacific Crest Trail thru-hikers (hardcore backpackers who walk from Mexico to Canada in one continuous trip) praise them for their durability, comfort, and blister resistance. When you hold a pair of Darn Toughs next to a pair of Smartwools (which only have a two-year guarantee ), the difference is clear. The Darn Toughs are more tightly knit, the yarns are finer and feel sturdier, and the stitching is tighter.
This midlevel cushioned sock for women is the best synthetic option for most climates and terrains.
This synthetic men’s sock is perfect for day hiking in most weather.
If you are sensitive to wool, prefer a vegan product, or want a cooler option for the summer, we also like the Darn Tough Coolmax Hiker Micro Crew Midweight Hiking Sock, which comes in women's and men’s sizes.
We appreciated how breathable this sock felt. While wearing the Coolmax Micro Crew in hot summer weather, our testers’ feet stayed dry and sweat-free. The shorter micro-crew height makes the Coolmax Micro Crew suitable for both boots and shoes, too. And like all Darn Tough socks, this model comes with a lifetime warranty.
These stylish beach sandals come in a wide range of colors. Be careful, though: Indosole sizes tend to run a little small.
These beach sandals are the same as the women’s version but cut a bit wider; we still think they run a little smaller than regular shoe sizes.
A good pair of travel flip-flops should be lightweight, comfortable, and waterproof. The men’s and women’s Indosole Flip Flops offer the best combination of quality, comfort, and easy packability. Unlike many flip-flops, which slap against the ground with every step, the subtle arch support of this flip-flop kept it secure against our feet. Plus they’re made from waterproof, recycled materials. Keep in mind, though, that our testers found these shoes to run a bit small, so we suggest sizing up for the best fit.
While doing laundry at home can be a large weekly event, OneBag author Doug Dyment recommends approaching travel laundry as a part of your daily routine, especially if you’re trying to pack as little as possible: “The laundry should be more like cleaning your teeth — something you do everyday. It only takes about five minutes to do it. Every night, do your socks and underwear and you’ll have clean socks and underwear everyday.”
The Flexo-Line attaches easily to a door handle or faucet and grips garments securely between its loops.
Check out OneBag’s laundry packing list if you want specific tips on how to do it and what you’ll need, but it’s a pretty simple setup: All you need is a toiletry bottle of powdered detergent, a towel to help expedite drying, and a travel clothesline to finish the drying process while you sleep at night.
Specifically, you want a braided — not twisted — surgical latex clothesline with looped ends, which means you want a Flexo-Line . The Flexo-Line can stretch up to 7 feet long, which is enough to span most hotel bathtubs, and it has loops that you can attach easily to a door handle, bath spigot, or faucet. The braided construction is superior to twisted designs made from other materials because the latex does a better job of gripping garments securely between the loops, which means you don’t need any additional clothespins.
Dyment has tried them all, but the Flexo-Line is the one he comes back to. As he explained to me in an interview, “There are others that are fine, but there are far more that are not fine.” More specifically, Dyment says to avoid anything that’s not made of latex , because clothes will inevitably slip out of them. He also says to never, ever trust a suction cup: “They don’t work, period.” If the Flexo-Line is unavailable, Dyment says that the Rick Steves collection from Kiva Designs also makes a nice braided line that can be a bit more expensive.
If you have a latex allergy, Dyment recommends going with a length of cord ( paracord is nice because it’s durable and you can use it for other things as well) and stainless steel safety pins meant for cloth diapers , because they take up far less space than a clothespin and won’t rust. In fact, it’s worthwhile to get these items even if you can use a latex line because they’re great for making luggage repairs and performing other MacGyver-ish tasks in a pinch.
To hang up the clothesline, we recommend using a bowline knot on one end and a taut line hitch on the other. These knots work well together because the bowline creates a simple, slip-proof loop to anchor one end while the taut line hitch allows you to adjust for tension and locks tightly in place. If you could commit any two knots to memory forever, these are the ones to learn.
Perfect for traveling because you don’t even need to rinse it out.
When you’re washing your underwear in a hotel sink, you want a fast and easy experience. For this, we recommend the no-rinse detergent Soak . That’s right, we said no rinse . You just add a drop to the sink, fill with water, and leave your garments to soak. Then press out the water and hang. Done.
In our tests of delicates detergents , Soak cleaned almost as well as our top laundry detergent, Tide; plus, it comes in individual single-use packets that are great for traveling, as well as in larger, but still travel-size, bottles . In addition to unscented, it's available in a variety of scents, although Lacey and Celebration are not the most descriptive of names. They all smell nice, not overpowering. We like the assorted travel pack , which includes eight single-use packets, allowing you to try a few different scents.
One downside to Soak is that you won’t find it in a grocery store or big-box store. But it is available online at Soak’s site . And if you really want to walk into a store and put your mitts on a bottle, you can find it at most local yarn stores.
Don’t feel like buying Soak or bringing along a bit of your own detergent? Shampoo also works pretty well for cleaning garments in a pinch, so make use of that free bottle from the hotel. But a caveat: Neither Soak nor shampoo contains enzymes , which are biological molecules in laundry detergent that break down certain stains. If you have especially stinky or stained clothes, you might need to break out the Tide .
Regardless of how you get to your final destination, it’s likely you’ll be stuck in a seat that’s less than ideal. Travel gadgets that claim to reduce this misery are popular. But when they take up precious luggage space for the duration of your trip — not just the flight or train ride — they need to be worth every cubic inch of space. The less you can make do with, the better off you’ll be.
Its tall memory-foam walls let it offer more support than any other pillow we tested. It’s also shaped to sit flush against a headrest, and it compresses to a manageable size.
The uniquely angled back on the Travelrest Ultimate sets it apart from other travel pillows we tested because it can lay flat against the seat back. Most other pillows have a rounded back, which pushes your head away from the headrest. The Travelrest also has rubber grip dots to prevent slipping while sleeping.
This pillow’s spongy memory foam cushions the entire circumference of your neck, preventing your head from leaning far in any direction, and its adjustable Velcro strap ensures it can fit most necks. The pillow’s cozy velour exterior is removable and machine-washable.
Although it doesn’t pack flat, the Travelrest weighs less than a pound and compresses to a quarter of its size when rolled into its Velcro-strapped carrying case. Our only complaint is that the Travelrest’s high walls, though supportive, can push over-ear headphones off of the ears of people with shorter necks.
This lightweight, comfortable pair of headphones provides an excellent combination of active and passive noise reduction, as well as great sound quality. But it comes at a high price.
If you want to block as much noise as possible, the Sony WH-1000XM6 provides an excellent combination of active noise cancellation to address low-pitched, sustained sounds (like airplane noise and traffic) and passive noise isolation to block higher-pitched noises (such as squealing train brakes). For those moments when you do want to hear your surroundings, the hear-through and quick-attention modes make it easy for you to catch the flight attendant’s safety briefing, or hear your connecting flight info.
This pair sounds excellent, with crisp details and deep bass, and you can tailor the sound to your liking via the app. You should be able to wear this lightweight, comfortable pair for hours without pinching or pressure, and the combination of touch-based and physical controls is intuitive and easy to use by feel. Thanks to the long, 30-hour battery life, you don’t need to worry about running out of power.
Unfortunately, this pair does have a few flaws. The intensity of the active noise cancellation is not adjustable, and the Sony Sound Connect app can be cumbersome. We also wish the WH-1000XM6 supported Auracast Bluetooth capability .
We have additional options — including earbuds and surprisingly good budget options for over-ear headphones and earbuds — in our full guide to noise-cancelling headphones .
If you own Bluetooth headphones or earbuds that don’t work in wired mode, a Bluetooth transmitter will let you connect them to the plane’s audio system with a standard jack.
This small, portable transmitter sounds as good as more expensive options, and it actually works as advertised, which isn’t a given in this category.
The pocket-sized 1Mii ML300 transmitter has a solid, 10-hour battery life; support for the aptX Low Latency Bluetooth codec (to improve the sync between audio and video); and the ability to pair to two sets of headphones at once. Like all of the Bluetooth transmitters our audio team tested, it can produce some audio lag, but it’ll perform better than a pair of freebie airline earbuds.
Many airplanes have eliminated their seatback entertainment systems in favor of a library of movies and TV shows that you stream via captive Wi-Fi to your own device. If you suspect you’ll be facing that situation, you may want to bring a tablet rather than face squinting for hours at your phone. (One upside: You can use the tablet as an e-reader, too.)
The cheapest iPad that Apple sells has a large screen, fast performance, a USB-C port, and plenty of color options to suit the needs of most people.
The 11th-gen iPad is the best tablet for most people, thanks to great hardware, an easy-to-use operating system, and a huge library of quality apps — even if you normally use Android on your phone or Windows on your computer. iOS also receives frequent updates — including prompt security updates — which isn’t something you can say of many Android tablets. Apple also increased the amount of storage that now comes with the least expensive iPad to 128 GB, which is a great jump from the previously included 64 GB — good news for people who tend to use long flights to catch up on multiple seasons of a show they missed.
We also have a pick for people invested in the Google Android system and a budget tablet for streaming video in our guide to the best tablets . (The budget pick, the Amazon Fire, may not be able to access some airlines’ in-flight libraries, but you should still be able to stream shows and movies if you pay for the external Wi-Fi and watch content that you’ve downloaded.)
These blocked the most noise in our controlled testing and got the most votes from our subjective sleep panel.
When you’re traveling, it can be difficult to fall asleep to unfamiliar noises. That’s why we spent several hours researching new contenders and tested four top-rated models while sleeping in a house that was next to an airport in order to determine that Mack’s Ultra Soft Foam earplugs are the best earplugs for sleeping.
The Mack’s 37.1 dB noise reduction rating was the highest among the models we tested. According to Cooper Safety , that’s enough to reduce the volume of a gas lawnmower to that of a normal conversation. What made the Mack’s earplugs so effective is the fact that we could insert them and rest assured that they would stay in the whole night. Meanwhile, the Howard Leight MAX1 might be a favorite from crowdsourced sleep-aid review site Sleep Like the Dead , but the earplugs would inevitably fall out in the middle of the night. Thus, they failed to block out the noise of planes landing and taking off throughout the night, despite the MAX1’s 33 dB noise reduction rating. The Howard Leights also made our ears ache on occasion, whereas the Mack’s has a tapered shape that was consistently comfortable night after night.
The Mack’s Slim Fit Soft Foam Earplugs cost about 20¢-35¢ per pair when purchased in a 50-pair pack. They come in a plastic case is about the size of a large coffee mug, which is small enough to toss in a large bag or suitcase.
The lightweight and contoured Nidra mask is a light-blocking win for most face shapes, with deep eye cups that allow the wearer to blink freely and arrive feeling refreshed.
When bright lights hamper peaceful shut-eye, we recommend the light-blocking, contoured Nidra Deep Rest sleep mask. Of the 14 masks we tested , the Nidra blocked the most light on the most faces. It’s contoured to rest on your face like a pair of soft goggles, with fabric lenses that sit around your eyes (instead of directly over them). This design provides more space for your eyes to flutter during REM sleep, ensuring that you come through red-eye flights with less redness in your eyes. Makeup wearers will also appreciate that, with the Nidra’s elevated eye cups, there’s a smaller chance of smudging.
A silken exterior material, a flat design, and an adjustable strap make this mask a fit for almost any face, but it puts pressure on the eyes.
Soft, structured, and contoured, this mask stays on all night and prevents any light from seeping through
If the Nidra Deep Rest doesn’t fit your face quite right, we also recommend the Alaska Bear Natural Silk Sleep Mask and the Mzoo Sleep Mask . The Alaska Bear mask lacks contoured eyecups and thus applies some pressure to the eyes overnight like any regular eye mask does. But its flat design easily conforms to fit your face, and its silk exterior feels smooth and soft against skin (the padding is made of cotton). Its relative lack of structure makes it more difficult to knock off when you’re tossing and turning.
The Mzoo mask’s eyecups have a convex gap so your eyes can open and close. That gap is surrounded by a memory foam padding that rests on the perimeter of your eye sockets. The effect is such that you don’t feel like your eyes are being forced closed, but there is a bit of compression near your temples, eyebrows, and cheekbones. Most — though not all — of our testers found this sensation soothing. One liked how the contour of the eyecup kept the mask from brushing against their eyelashes, which makes it a good choice for people who wear eyelash extensions.
For a true frequent flier, wearing a great pair of compression socks can be both a safety and a comfort measure. Long flights can cause deep vein thrombosis and gravitational oedema (the technical term for swelling caused by sitting around too long). Compression socks facilitate circulation and reduce the instances of both .
Sockwell socks lie at the perfect intersection of function and price. And they’re a merino wool blend, which is typical of more-expensive options.
This is the exact same sock, but in women’s sizes.
SockWell Lifestyle Firm Compression Socks (available in both men’s and women’s sizes) are comfortably snug, and they’re made of a luxe, merino wool blend that hugs without constricting. As we said above, yarn that includes merino wool has natural sweat-wicking, odor-resisting, and temperature-regulating properties that make it ideal for traveling. The socks are cozy on a nippy flight, and they come in a handful of prints and colors that aren’t as institutional-looking as those of other compression socks we tried.
This sleek-looking bottle has an unbreakable glass interior that prevents flavor transfers. We also like it for both hot and cold drinks, as unlike a glass bottle it insulates well, which makes it a versatile travel companion.
If you want one bottle to travel with that can hold both hot and cold drinks, the 18-ounce Purist Mover is the perfect choice. While its exterior is stainless steel, its interior is glass. Unlike traditional glass vacuum linings, the Purist Mover’s is unbreakable (and so minimal that you barely notice it) because it’s applied as a thin, spray-on coating. You get the benefits of a glass bottle minus the weight and potential breakage, plus it keeps drinks hot or cold. In our tests, this bottle was as tough as our non-glass picks, yet we didn’t experience any taste transfers as we occasionally did with stainless steel and plastic models. Purist offers a two-year warranty that covers manufacturing defects.
Purist offers three lids that work with this water bottle: the simple, screw-top Element Top , the flip-spout Union Top , and the Scope Top , a twist-to-open café-style lid. For travel, we recommend the Scope Top, which works with hot or cold beverages.
Over the years, we’ve tested, and been disappointed by, many collapsible travel bottles. But if you’re absolutely set on getting one, consider the Nomader Collapsible Water Bottle , which was our travel pick in 2018. This bottle has stood the test of time, whereas other collapsible bottles we tested eventually sprung leaks. If you must have a collapsible bottle, this one is the easiest to fill and drink from. Our big concern is that the Nomader bottle’s silicone body doesn’t roll down particularly small, so it’s up to you to decide whether the tiny space savings are worth paying for.
If you need still more hydration options, see our full guide to water bottles .
Few things are better than landing at an airport, turning on your phone, and having it just work. No hassles, no stress, no worries about brutal roaming fees. You can check in with loved ones, scope out the route to your lodgings, and maybe post an Instagram story or two — because your phone works just like it does at home. This is especially freeing, and it makes travel so much easier. (Of course, phones aren’t the only useful tech to bring: Check out our accessories reviews for guides to the best cables ( USB-C , Lightning , and Micro-USB ), Wi-Fi hotspots , and more.)
One of the most useful gadgets for international travel is an unlocked smartphone that’s compatible with cheap, prepaid phone plans you can sign up for at your destination. Unless your carrier offers plans including high-speed data that you can access internationally (i.e., you’re with T-Mobile or Google Fi), traveling with a phone under contract with a major carrier means paying an arm and a leg for data. Being able to access data-guzzling apps like Google Maps or Google Translate on the fly is worth the hassle to unlock a phone. Facebook Messenger or WhatsApp are free, easy ways to communicate with people you meet on your trip and people from home. Plus there’s checking email, TripAdvisor, banking, social media, and so on.
An “unlocked” phone means you can buy prepaid SIM cards in the country you’re visiting, letting you access their local network for significantly less money than the roaming fees incurred by your home carrier. With a prepaid SIM, your phone effectively becomes a new phone with a new (now local) phone number. Instead of seeing “Verizon,” “AT&T,” or “Sprint” at the top of your phone, you might see “Vodafone,” “Yes Optus,” “M1,” or whatever provider you choose in the country you’re visiting. The first thing to check is if your phone will work where you’re going. If you’re unsure if your phone will work where you’re going, check the Wikipedia page for your phone or contact your provider.
Your phone will also require a removable SIM. (If your phone has an eSIM, as all new iPhones do, check out our blog post about those.) Most countries require a passport or other ID to buy a prepaid SIM without a contract, but switching the SIMs is easy. Most stores will do it for you while you’re there. Depending on the country/provider, this could take as long as 10 minutes but is often faster. The next question is easily the most complicated: Can you unlock your phone? Each carrier has different rules and criteria. Generally, if you have a brand new, expensive phone, they may not let you unlock it (there’s usually a waiting period after the purchase date). But if it’s a little older, or if you’ve paid it off, they probably will. The thing to remember is that a provider can deny an unlock request without giving a reason. You might be lucky, though; certain phones on certain providers are unlocked by default. Here are Verizon and AT&T’s pages on unlocking. Alternately, you can buy a pre-unlocked phone just for travel. Amazon and Best Buy, for example, sell unlocked phones. This is also a good option if you think you might lose your expensive phone and a cheaper one will suffice while you travel.
With four plugs that will work in most countries, plus faster-charging USB ports (and more of them) than its competitors, this adapter is the best all-around choice.
In a sea of almost-identical travel adapters, the Epicka Universal Travel Adapter stands out, combining the best of the features we look for. It contains the three most common international plugs and a US-style plug, which should cover you in the majority of countries around the world. It has the most USB ports — four of the standard USB-A and one USB-C — of any universal adapter we tested, and it charged more of our devices faster. A replaceable fuse and an included spare should take the brunt of any accidental, unfortunate, or shockingly bad connections. The Epicka is fairly compact and well built, and it even comes with an extra USB cable and a nylon case.
However, no universal travel adapter is truly universal, and they’re all a lot bulkier and more expensive than simple plug adapters. If you want the smallest adapter possible, or if you’re going someplace where a universal adapter won’t work (more on that in a minute), a plug adapter could be what you need.
Individually, these tiny plug adapters are smaller, lighter, and cheaper than any universal travel adapter. To juice up multiple devices, though, you’d need a separate multiport charger too.
The tiny plug adapters from Ceptics are barely larger than the prongs they convert. Small, simple, and cheap, they’re perfect for someone who wants to carry only the adapter they’ll need and who already has a multiport USB wall charger they like. Like our universal adapter picks, this set contains the three most common international plugs and the US plug. However, it also includes a somewhat rarer plug used in some European countries that has two thick, cylindrical prongs. This means that the Ceptics set will likely cover you in even more places — as long as you pack the appropriate plug adapter. These charts should help you find the shape you need before you order.
However, getting your gear to work in different countries isn’t quite as simple as it should be, and there’s no single solution that’s guaranteed to work for everyone. Our picks should work for you, but you may have some random piece of equipment, or be traveling to some country, for which our “good for most” picks just won’t work. (Case in point: One Wirecutter editor visited Iceland a few years back. The house she stayed in had outlets unlike anything on those charts, and the plug adapters she had used elsewhere in Reykjavik didn’t fit at all. It turns out the mystery sockets belonged to an obscure Italian system from the 1960s that was popular in Iceland for a time. Luckily, the hosts had power strips in the house that her adapters fit into.) The world is a big place, and when it comes to electricity and wall outlets, there’s a lot of variation. That’s important to keep in mind.
Whether two-prong or three-prong, an adapter just changes the shape of your plug, not anything about the electricity coming through the wires. However, this usually isn’t a problem because almost every power brick that comes with modern electronic gear is capable of accepting both the 110-volt standard used in the US and the 240-volt commonly used abroad. If your device has a power block on the cord, it likely says something like  “100-240 V ~ 50/60 Hz” — that’s the all-clear to use it without a voltage converter so long as the range covers the voltage of the country you’re visiting . This includes the vast majority of modern laptop and USB chargers.
Products without some sort of power block at the end or with a non-detachable cord — in particular, things with heating elements like hair dryers and curling irons — are more likely to need a voltage converter. Putting 220 V through a US 110 V device would be like attaching a firehose to a drinking fountain — you’re likely to blow your face off. But voltage converters are tricky devices, and most of the inexpensive ones have awful (or dishonest) reviews. Since hotels and hostels will often have hair dryers and most newer gear can do the full range of voltages, we strongly recommend that, whenever possible, you only bring items that work with a much simpler (and more reliable) adapter.
Now that every device has a battery, every battery has a charger, and every charger has a cable — never mind power-plug adapters if you’re traveling abroad — the sheer quantity of accessories needed just to keep your gadgets running can take up more space than the devices themselves. And unless you organize them, you can bet on having to blindly fish them out of the least convenient spot at the bottom of your bag.
A slim, light, and water-resistant bag that keeps your gear organized, accessible, and secure when you’re on the go.
Last year, our pick for carrying tech necessities, the Incase Nylon Accessory Organizer, which had been out of stock for a few years, returned to the Incase website; however, as of January 2026, it’s out of stock again (we’ll continue to monitor the situation). The Incase cable organizer is a poly-nylon blend, so it’s durable. It is a soft-shell bag, however, so its contents can distort the bag’s shape when it’s full. But the bag’s edges remain rigid — so the seams don’t pucker — its contents don’t fall out, and zipping and unzipping the bag is still easy. We have other picks in our full guide to bag and cable organizers , including a roll-up bag and a stylish duo of cosmetics travel pouches ; we’ll also start testing other options.
A USB battery pack (also called a power bank) can keep your small electronics — from phones and cameras to tablets and more — going while you’re on the road.
This power bank is small and light, and its rounded edges make it easy to slip into a pocket. It comes in only one color, but it has two built-in cables and enough capacity to charge most smartphones up to three times.
The top pick in our guide to portable chargers and power banks , the Belkin Boost Charge Plus 10K weighs about half a pound, and its rounded edges make it easy to hold or slip into a pocket. Its USB-C Power Delivery (PD) port can charge most handheld devices and recharge itself at top speed (with the right USB-C cable and wall charger), and it can pass power to another device while being recharged from a wall outlet. It only comes in one color, but it has enough capacity to fully charge most smartphones up to three times, as well as built-in USB-C and Lightning cables that are easy to slide in and out of their holsters.
This power bank is one of the smallest and lightest we’ve tested. It has a powerful USB-C PD port, built-in USB-C and Lightning cables, and a 3,000 mAh rated capacity. But it recharges slower than our other picks.
The TravelCard Plus has less than a third of the Belkin’s capacity, but it’s much lighter and slimmer. Its USB-C PD port, built-in USB-C cable, and built-in Lightning cable can fast-charge most smartphones or other handheld devices (though it recharges more slowly than our other picks). It’s just as sleek-looking and sturdy as our top pick, and it comes in a wider variety of colors.
If you’re traveling for leisure, try not to get too wrapped up in technology because you might miss what you’re actually there to do: experience a new place. OneBag’s Doug Dyment said in an interview, “Wearing headphones and staring at a screen is like putting a digital wall around yourself when you’re traveling. It makes you seem unapproachable and uninterested in what’s around you.” That may be a good thing if you do truly want to be left alone, but Dyment went on to say that some of his most memorable traveling experiences were the result of just looking lost and getting help from the locals. “One minute, you’re a lost foreigner in an unfamiliar village, then someone asks if you need directions. Before you know it, you’re eating dinner with his family.”
Amazingly affordable with great optics, these binoculars have performance comparable with that of many models that cost thousands more.
Our top pick for binoculars is durable and great for near-home hikes. In hot or dusty environments that may call for a clearer optical boost, the Athlon Optics Midas ED 8×42 binoculars deliver top quality. Its focus dial offers a wide range of depths that makes it easier to see whatever it is you desire — birds, grass or darkened areas of the forest. Our recommendation comes with the assistance of a professional ornithologist who spent over 100 hours putting 17 pairs of binoculars to the test in the mountains of Southern California and the rain forests of southern Mexico.
Compact binocs aren’t the best for birding, but these combine pocket-size convenience with enough magnification to actually identify things.
If you’re concerned about saving space, we suggest the Pentax AD 8x25 WP binoculars. While not quite as powerful as our other picks, this compact pair of binoculars is well made and easy to fit into a carry-on while traveling via plane.
Amazon’s most affordable Kindle is also its most portable, with a 6-inch screen that offers sharp text on a bright screen and support for USB-C charging. Those features bring it in line with far more expensive e-readers. The Kids version costs an extra $20, but it comes with a slew of perks that make it an excellent option if you can spend a little more.
After testing every competitive ebook reader available in the US, we can say that Amazon’s 2024 Kindle , its cheapest model, is the best for almost everyone. It has a bright display, 16 GB of storage space, and USB-C charging, like the pricier Kindle Paperwhite . But it’s more affordable and lightweight, and because it’s smaller, it’s easier to tuck in a bag or even a pocket (if you’re into cargo pants). Amazon’s well-stocked store of ebooks remains its biggest selling point, along with the ease of checking out library books via Libby and sending them directly to your Kindle.
Toss this lightweight, phone-sized packable bag into your luggage or coat pocket, and you’ll never get caught without a spare bag again. If you need something to carry every day, though, we think you’ll prefer one of our more-structured picks.
Use promo code WCPACK
Packing a stowable daypack, one that stuffs down to fit in your luggage when not in use, is a relatively small investment of space in exchange for a high return of function and flexibility. After researching dozens of packable daypacks across a spectrum of portability, features, and prices, and then packing, unpacking, loading, wearing, and drenching the top-rated finalists during multiple rounds of testing, the Sea to Summit Ultra-Sil Travel Day Pack is the smallest and lightest packable backpack we recommend. Packed up, it is very discreet: nearly the size of a keychain accessory.
The bag itself is a no-frills sack made from a paper-thin siliconized Cordura nylon, which means it’s very light and water-resistant. It has reinforced stitching at stress points, allowing the Ultra-Sil to carry more weight than you would expect. That said, since this pack is made of such thin, light material, carrying large or awkwardly shaped loads is somewhat uncomfortable, especially when compared with our more structured picks.
If comfort or waterproofing is important to you, check out the alternative picks in our review of packable daypacks for travel .
This roomy, durable ripstop polyester bag is large enough to comfortably stand in for a diaper bag, tote, or compact backpack. But its generous size may overwhelm smaller frames.
For a fanny pack that’s large enough to replace a small hiking pack, consider the Patagonia Black Hole Waist Pack 5L . The Black Hole pack is made from recycled ripstop polyester, with TPU-film laminate waterproofing. It’s built for outdoor conditions and can take a lot of abuse, and it’s backed by Patagonia’s Ironclad Guarantee .
The main compartment comfortably accommodates a light jacket, a sunhat, a pack of wipes, a large wallet, a phone, keys, sunglasses, and several snacks — with room to spare. Two mesh pockets on either end of the pack are purpose-built for water bottles, with compression straps to keep articles firmly in place. You could also use the pockets to tote sunscreen, bug spray, or a travel-size umbrella.
Even fully loaded, the Black Hole is comfortable to wear, with a generously padded, well-ventilated back panel that flexes to accommodate different body shapes and movements. And the wide, sturdily built strap adjusts securely and doesn’t dig into skin. However, this extra-large pack can look and feel overwhelming on smaller frames.
For more options, including smaller ones, see our full guide to fanny packs
Field Notes are cheap but contain high-quality paper that earns praise from pen and stationery geeks across the web.
For writing your adventures as you travel, you can’t beat the portability, practicality, and romanticism of a pocket notebook. There’s nothing better in that category than Field Notes (three-packs available in a variety of styles and types ). These pocket-sized notebooks are widely praised for their excellent paper quality, and the Pen Addict’s Brad Dowdy tells me “Field Notes is pretty much the runaway pocket notebook champ.” Dowdy has praised it for the lack of feathering or bleedthrough with almost any pen, as well as for the light brown ruled lines, which are easier to write over than solid black. Austin Smith of Art Supply Critic told us in an email that his recommendation is “Field Notes has it, no question.” The Well-Appointed Desk has reviewed a slew of different Field Notes variants for those looking for something a bit more interesting.
Weather-resistant Expedition Field Notes are great if you’re writing in wet conditions, but don’t get them if you don’t need them. The synthetic paper feels weird and can cause some inks to smear.
If you think you’re going to be writing in foul weather, Field Notes also has the waterproof Expedition version with pages made from a synthetic water-and-tear resistant paper. You should only get these if you really need them, because otherwise, they just feel unnaturally slick and are more prone to smearing ink. At least one user has said that the paper shows less soaking through when wet than the similar Rite in the Rain books . The one caveat is that the synthetic paper will only work with pencils and certain inks ; thankfully, the Uni-ball Jetstream RT , our pick for best pen , definitely makes the grade.
This camera isn’t much bigger than a pack of playing cards, yet it captures beautiful images and video in nearly any situation, offers ample customizable controls, and has a great pop-up viewfinder.
The Sony RX100 VII isn’t cheap, but it is made to handle almost anything you’re likely to photograph on your travels (above water, anyway). And it’s a camera that you can grow with as you enhance your skills.
Its focus tracking is the best you can find in a compact camera, and its pop-up electronic viewfinder makes composing shots on sunny days easier. Crucially, its 20-megapixel 1-inch sensor delivers sharper images, with more realistic color and better background blur when you want it, than the best smartphone cameras can produce.
The RX100 VII’s 24–200mm lens is both wide enough and long enough to handle the vast majority of photo opportunities. Due to its relatively narrow maximum aperture range, it sacrifices a little background blur and low-light shooting ability in comparison with some larger compact and mirrorless cameras, but its telephoto capabilities and diminutive size make it the best all-around travel companion.
Its 4K footage is colorful and sharp, as well, and it can output live, uncompressed 4K footage via HDMI. (That said, vloggers should look to our pick for vlogging .) For all of our compact camera recommendations, see our full guide to point-and-shoot cameras .
Things can go wrong while you’re traveling. Though you can’t prepare for every worst-case scenario, the peace of mind that a little bit of preparation grants will allow you to focus on what’s in front of you, instead of having to worry about what could go wrong.
This is a solidly built, easy-to-find umbrella that holds up in high winds. It also comes in a variety of colors.
An umbrella you take traveling should be small, light, sturdy, and affordable. After putting in 66 hours of research and evaluating a total of 48 umbrellas across five rounds of testing (including one thunder-snowstorm), we found that the Repel Windproof Travel Umbrella is the best umbrella for most people. Its durable, nine-rib construction held up admirably against gale-force winds, and it’s as sturdy as umbrellas that sell for more than twice as much.
The Repel folds up to an 11½-inch long, 14-ounce package that fits easily into most bags and glove boxes. And it forcefully expands at a touch of a button to reveal an ample 37-inch-diameter canopy that protects your head and torso from precipitation in all but the windiest of conditions. Its lengthy, textured handle is easy to grip for hands of all sizes. We also appreciate that the Repel comes in a wide variety of colors, so it’s easier to pick yours out of a crowded umbrella bucket. Finally, despite its affordable price, it’s backed by a lifetime replacement guarantee, but only if you purchase directly from Repel and register the item under the company’s warranty.
The Merchant & Mills Rapid Repair Kit is the only travel kit we found that had objectively high-quality thread and scissors.
There’s nothing quite like a wardrobe malfunction to put a damper on vacation, especially when traveling with limited clothing. A good travel-size sewing kit allows you to mend a popped button or ripped seam on the fly — or even tackle more pressing issues like fixing a tent, sleeping bag, or backpack. After 15 hours of research, interviews with sewing teachers and avid home sewers, and tests of six travel and full-size kits, we found the Merchant & Mills for Purl Soho Rapid Repair Kit had by far the best tools and was the easiest to keep organized. Standard travel sewing kits usually contain mediocre thread and plastic-handled scissors that break easily. They can also be hard to keep organized (a truth we confirmed when testing six top-rated travel and full-sized kits). The Merchant & Mills set was the only one that had high-quality thread, all-metal mini scissors (don’t worry, the TSA shouldn’t stop you ), and a durable tin case (about the size of a deck of cards) to keep everything well organized.
Because the sewing pins are neatly stuck into paper inside a slim envelope and the three needles are housed in a mini glass vial, this kit also limits the risk of losing a sharp object in your bags. We found the Merchant & Mills needles easier to thread than others (no need for a fussy needle threader!) and we also like the vintage-looking safety pins that come clipped together along with two small white buttons. Although this kit only comes with black and white thread, the thread is strong and there’s more of it than you’d get in a flimsier set with shorter strands of multiple colors. We do think it would be nice if the kit included a more durable measuring tape than the paper one included, but overall everything about this kit is leagues ahead of anything else we considered. We didn’t find editorial reviews for any of the kits we tested, but the Merchant & Mills rapid repair kit was recommended by several sewing bloggers and is sold in many reputable indie fabric shops.
There’s no guarantee that your hotel or Airbnb will be as quiet as it promises to be; there’s also no guarantee that it will be equipped with a carbon-monoxide detector. We have a few suggestions to help everyone in the room sleep more soundly, from noise-blocking wireless earbuds to to a portable CO detector.
These tiny wireless earbuds sound great, block noise, and can play customizable preloaded sounds or stream audio from your Bluetooth device. Cushioned wings make them comfortable for side-sleepers, too.
Use promo code MMSF88
If your temporary neighborhood is reminiscent of a construction site, the Soundcore Sleep A20 is our sleep-headphone pick for blocking and masking sounds . We like this set because it’s especially customizable, the sound quality is great, and you can tailor the sound to your liking in the app.
The tiny earbuds nestle comfortably in the ears and are held securely in place by puffy wings that add cushioning for side-sleepers. Three sizes of wings and seven sets of ear tips are included to ensure a good fit. The set has a 10-hour battery life when you’re streaming from your mobile device and 14 hours when the earbuds are playing preloaded sounds. We love the app’s ability to mix and match masking sounds to create your own unique soundscapes, which you can then preload onto the earbuds.
The minor downsides: The built-in alarm lacks the ability to snooze, and the set doesn’t have microphones for taking calls (which you hopefully aren’t doing when you’re asleep).
myNoise offers better customization than any other white noise app we’ve found. It doesn’t simply make nuisance noises more bearable — it can make them almost disappear.
We love the free myNoise app (available in the App Store and on Google Play ), which lets you choose from a range of pleasing white noise and natural sounds whose frequency and intensity you can customize. The effect is that the app nearly perfectly masks any nuisance noise — something that neither dedicated sound machines nor the other apps we tried are able to do.
The free version of the app offers a decent range of sounds, and myNoise’s full acoustic library (an optional “all you can hear” bundle) is available for a $4 monthly fee. For the best results, though, you need a good Bluetooth speaker or a pair of sleep headphones.
This speaker is small enough to fit in a pocket, yet it still sounds good. It doesn’t really have any bass, though, and the battery life is short.
Which is where the JBL Go 4 comes in. It’s by far the smallest of our picks , easy to slip into a laptop bag, purse, or even a pocket. But unlike most of the ultra-compact Bluetooth speakers we’ve tried, it produces a satisfying, reasonably full sound.
The Go 4 measures 3.7 by 3 by 1.7 inches and weighs just 11 ounces. It maxes out at a little under 80 dB, which is about 10 dB more than the speakers built into most smartphones, so it’s worth carrying with you — especially considering it weighs about the same as a typical smartphone.
Like our top pick, this speaker is rated IP67, which makes it both waterproof and dustproof. It has USB-C charging and comes in lots of colors. The battery life is just five hours in standard mode. The Playtime Boost mode increased this to almost nine hours, but it produced a slightly thinner sound.
This headband-style pair comes in different sizes and fabrics, and you can stream any audio to it wirelessly via Bluetooth. But it costs more than many similarly styled competitors.
If you enjoy listening to soothing sounds while you sleep, but a) don’t like the feeling of earbuds and b) share a bed with someone who prefers silence, the AcousticSheep SleepPhones Wireless headband-style sleep headphones deliver the most reliable experience available. This is the only set we found that offers headbands in different sizes and fabrics, so there’s a better chance it’ll fit you comfortably.
The flat, felt-covered speakers aren’t painful to lie on, and they produce better sound than the cheap alternatives. You can stream audio wirelessly from any Bluetooth source (be it a smartphone, tablet, or TV). And thanks to the 24 hours of battery life, you’ll get a few nights of rest before needing to charge it again. The Bluetooth module and speaker drivers are easier to remove than the pieces in competing models, which makes washing the headband less arduous.
However, the headband-style design could interfere with hair bonnets, dental headgear, or nighttime skin treatments, and folks hoping to block louder external noise — such as the thunderous snoring of a partner — may find that the cloth isn’t isolating enough. Plus, the $100 price tag may seem steep for headphones that you use only in bed.
If you want a light for reading that can do a lot more, we recommend this bright, comfortable kid’s headlamp, regardless of your age.
Speaking of sleeping partners, perhaps you rely on a reading light to read in bed without disturbing them. If you want a reading light that’s also useful for a variety of situations you might encounter while traveling — unfamiliar hallways, poorly illuminated keypads — we suggest the Black Diamond Wiz Headlamp , which we recommend as the best headlamp for reading in our guide to reading lights . Also our pick for kids in our headlamp guide , the Wiz surprised us: It fit adults while remaining comfortable and providing long-lasting light. If you already own our top headlamp pick, the Black Diamond Spot, you could of course use that as a reading light too. But if you don’t, the Wiz costs half the price of the Spot and will automatically turn itself off after two hours — especially helpful if you tend to fall asleep while reading.
Any hotel, resort, or short-term rental ought to have working smoke alarms, but unfortunately, not everyone (hosts or guests) is aware of the deadly danger posed by carbon monoxide . As Doug Mahoney says in our guide to smoke alarms, the odorless, colorless gas can infiltrate a a structure “as the result of a malfunctioning or improperly installed chimney or combustion appliance such as a gas stove, a gas boiler, a water heater, a propane range, or a wood stove, according to the Environmental Protection Agency and other sources.”
This portable, battery-powered alarm can detect elevated CO levels caused by broken or poorly installed fuel-burning appliances (dryers, water heaters, and the like). It won’t detect smoke, though.
Doug suggests packing the First Alert CO710 Carbon Monoxide Alarm , a small, battery-powered alarm from the same company that makes the in-home smoke-and-CO alarm he recommends in his guide. Unlike that pick, though, the CO710 won’t alert you to smoke — only to excess levels of carbon monoxide. (It does also display the temperature, however.)
Equivalent in size to a stack of three iPhone SEs, it weighs less than half a pound, making it easy to slip into a carry-on. (It is powered by a built-in lithium battery, though, so it shouldn’t go in your checked luggage.) We recommend having one for each bedroom.
While packing cubes and other organization tools are helpful for maximizing your bag’s usable space, efficient packing is also achievable without the aid of tools and compartments. One Bag’s Doug Dyment tried all manners of folding aids and compression products but was unsatisfied with their claims of compression and wrinkle prevention. Frustrated, he developed his own method of packing clothes compactly called the Bundle Method, which he’s used and perfected over several decades of traveling.
The Bundle Method involves layering your shirts and pants at opposing angles on a flat surface, then wrapping them around a small “core” parcel (e.g. a packing cube full of underwear and socks). We won’t get into details, but Dyment does on his website ; you can watch this easy-to-follow video from NBC . The resulting bundle is compact and has no sharp creases that will require ironing out later on. Additionally, Dyment explains that “the slight tension created in the fabric by the wrapping process, along with the anchoring of the resulting bundle, greatly reduces the chances of wrinkling.” You then put it in your bag and use the tie-down straps to provide just enough pressure to keep it together.
While simple to perform, this packing method isn’t something you can master in one go. It takes a bit of practice, but once you get it, it’s like riding a bike. The downside is that you can’t just leave your clothing packed and expect to be able to access your underwear without fully unpacking your clothes first. But unpacking is a good habit to get into anyway, as it allows your clothes to breathe and avoid wrinkles or mildew.
A big thank-you to the Hotel Lucia in downtown Portland, Oregon, for lending us a suite to use for the photos in this guide.
This article was edited by Ria Misra and Christine Ryan.
We tested more than a dozen travel plug adapters to find the best to bring on a trip overseas. Nothing can cover you everywhere, but here are four good options.
by Kit Dillon and Wirecutter Staff
After hundreds of hours of research and 1,500 miles behind the wheel, we’ve singled out the gear that’s absolutely essential for your next journey on the open road.
We chose three packable daypacks that you can keep on hand, whether you’re trekking across the globe or just on your daily commute.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).