article_id: nyt_76
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/newsletter/
title: Newsletters
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
One Wirecutter journalist shares how she learned to love … scrubbing shower grout. Plus, the essential cleaning supplies our cleaning experts swear by.
We’re sharing a few closet upgrades that would delight any giftee this February. Plus: 36 gifts that scream “self care.”
A few simple upgrades can deter falls and make any bathroom safer for just about anybody.
Five gorgeous trinket trays and tiny delights to gift alongside them.
Tonight we’ve handpicked gifts to celebrate Lunar New Year. Plus: the best gifts to give yourself.
8 gifts that meet the moment of your love, wherever that may be.
10 loving treats we’re doling out to all our loved ones this Valentine’s Day.
We’re making the case for a recurring gift. Plus: the freshest possible coffee beans and unwiltable flowers.
We’re making the case for going big on January birthdays. Plus: a medieval-looking cheese cutter and the best present for most people.
We share some (perhaps surprising) hacks that have helped us keep our homes in order.
Five ideas to reclaim stolen scrolling time.
These are the best gifts we received over the holiday season. Plus: a chic little hair pin and a do-it-all kitchen knife.
Often it’s the little fixes that make the biggest difference in zhuzhing up a space.
Tonight we’re covering the best gifts for a smoother, more beautiful 2026, including a lovely set of watercolors and a romantic, old-fashioned nightgown.
We’re rounding up what Wirecutter journalists gifted themselves this season, including a luxe shower gel and a solve for mindless doomscrolling.
We’ve got the very best stocking-size beauty products. Plus, more last-minute gifts, including a lovely brass pocket knife and an extremely cozy candle.
We count down the most popular gifts of the year, according to newsletter readers.
We’re making the case for why a great piece of jewelry is a can’t-go-wrong gift.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).