article_id: nyt_80
url: https://www.nytimes.com/section/your-money?page=8
title: Your Money
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Many Americans will see bigger refunds and new deductions, while others may be revisiting the dreaded alternative minimum tax. Don’t panic just yet.
By Tara Siegel Bernard and Ron Lieber
The agency still offers a Free File program that works with commercial tax software firms. Some companies also offer free tools for certain filers.
Once paychecks stop, it can be frightening to shift out of the savings habit. But there are strategies to enjoy your nest egg and make it last.
By Lisa Rabasca Roepe
Academics have tried to reimagine how our tax laws would be transformed through a feminist lens, and how they could be more equitable and attentive toward caregivers.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
The Trump administration has breached so many norms that the old approach carries heightened risks, our columnist says.
Beast Industries has acquired a banklike app for young people and could eventually offer a variety of financial services, including crypto.
By Tara Siegel Bernard and Ron Lieber
Older Americans are losing billions of dollars annually to financial exploitation. Banks and investment firms are training employees to spot red flags and stop the transactions.
Blaming a partial government shutdown, officials suspended the expedited arrival program this week, but some travelers are seeing inconsistencies at airports.
By Christine Chung and Ceylan Yeğinsu
An existing law could help create new retirement savings plans for people who lack them. But there may be income restrictions on any match.
By Ron Lieber and Tara Siegel Bernard
You’d think a financial planner married to another financial planner would have it easy come tax time. Alas, no.
The artificial intelligence frenzy is creating personal fortunes rarely seen in modern technology and changing people’s attitudes about fairness and money in relationships.
It’s cold outside — and a fine time to look over your bills and see where you can save.
Stocks have prospered while the world has plunged into disorder, an economist says. “Keep calm and carry on” may be the best investors can do.
A treasured 1970s heirloom left Florida intact, and arrived on Long Island ripped apart. Why wouldn’t the airline compensate her for the $600 in repairs?
House Republicans have scaled back a proposal to charge higher fees for the loans after opposition from veterans groups. But it still includes a higher fee for refinancings.
With signs of trouble popping up in financial markets, investors need to decide whether they can ignore the turmoil, our columnist says.
The first step, consumer finance experts say, is to ask your card issuer to reduce the rate. And with average balances now $6,500, consider using your tax refund to put a dent in the debt.
The U.S. stock market has become so concentrated that even broad index funds are no longer well diversified, our columnist says.
The central bank’s policy stance can influence consumer savings and borrowing, from car financing to home equity loans. Here’s how it works.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Dropping rates more than conditions warrant would stimulate the economy in the short term but could lead to trouble, our columnist says.
Older high-income workers who make contributions beyond the standard amount will have to put that extra money into a Roth 401(k). That may lower their take-home pay.
Two different nursing school programs in Ohio offer a glimpse into what may happen when federal student borrowing has limits.
By Ron Lieber and Andrea Fuller
More millennials and Gen Z-ers are planning trips around experiences, and the industry is responding with concerts, dinners and V.I.P. events.
Getting family members to listen to you when you think they are headed down a dangerous financial path can be difficult. But there are preventive steps you can take.
WestJet, Canada’s second-largest carrier, backpedaled on a new seating plan after videos of crammed travelers went viral on social media.
The Education Department has temporarily paused a plan to seize tax refunds and begin garnishing the wages of borrowers who have defaulted on their student loans.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
The Education Department reversed course and announced on Friday that it would delay aggressive efforts to collect what was owed on student loans.
The Soviet Union was Cuba’s benefactor for decades. Venezuela took up the slack, and Mexico has supplied “humanitarian aid.” But the world is changing rapidly, our columnist says.
Bilt, a rewards start-up, has new credit cards that help users earn points for housing payments. It rebooted the program after a shambolic rollout.
By Tara Siegel Bernard and Ron Lieber
Eryn Schultz was an H-E-B grocery store leader with an M.B.A. A slow pivot toward a big career change began when she found her retirement plan wanting.
Experts offered a variety of suggestions, including paring your list of goals, making saving automatic and avoiding spending temptations like marketing emails.
Returns have been fabulous but consider the potential for setbacks in this already hazardous year, our columnist says.
Travel loyalty programs are competing for customers with members-only experiences like backstage tours, exclusive dinners and access to V.I.P. areas.
By Christine Chung and Amir Hamja
A new study suggests that distressed borrowers using a simpler bankruptcy process are succeeding — and that more people like them should try.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Despite recent volatility in the crypto market, younger generations are still open to receiving digital currencies as gifts.
JPMorgan has had to pay tens of millions in legal costs for the convicted fraudster. It wants the public to see a newly unredacted list of itemized expenses.
Wall Street stock gurus are making predictions again. Our columnist got into the game with a number he doesn’t believe.
Early decision isn’t just for the rich, as long as people with lower incomes can get accurate price quotes before agreeing to attend if they get in.
Changes in the tax law will have different effects on people who take the standard deduction versus high earners who itemize.
A retired lawyer lost the money in a tech support scam, a type of online fraud that is surging. Citibank said it couldn’t recover the funds, which criminals wired from inside his account.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
The Trump administration is threatening the Fed’s autonomy, which the central bank regained with the Treasury-Fed accord in 1951.
You may be surprised by the little-known and sometimes nonsensical rules lurking in the fine print. Here are a few that tripped up readers in 2025.
Shifting expectations of a Fed rate cut reflect underlying uncertainty about politics and the economy. Here are some essentials for managing risk in investing.
Starting next year, people who became disabled by age 46 will be eligible for ABLE accounts. The accounts have been slow to catch on, partly because the current age limit is 26.
Next year, Michael and Susan Dell plan to move $250 into the new Trump accounts of millions of children under 10. You’ll need to live in the right ZIP code.
By Ron Lieber and Nicholas Kulish
The enrollment chiefs at Tulane and the University of Chicago attracted many early applicants. Now both of them earn a lot of money.
The convenience of one-click purchases and “buy now, pay later” loans is making it easier for people to shop — and shop and shop — during the holidays.
By Juli Fraga and Connie Chang
Three in four Americans ages 45 to 60 say they expect to overspend for the holidays. They’re “sort of like the glue within the consumer spectrum.”
The Trump administration has proposed 50-year and “portable” mortgages to make home buying more affordable. But housing experts offer other suggestions.
For the thrifty and flexible, this year’s crop of seasonal deals is value-packed.
Predatory lenders often take part in schemes that enable them to circumvent state lending laws and charge borrowers sky-high interest rates.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
There is still time to take advantage of federal tax credits for energy updates. But federal heating aid for low-income people was delayed by the government shutdown.
Palantir is a software company, and its national security work has driven its stock price to remarkable heights.
More than four million borrowers could potentially benefit from locking in a lower rate. Here’s what to consider.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Health savings accounts have lower premiums but higher deductibles. Now, more Obamacare plans can offer the accounts.
Big stock gains have always been followed by big losses. Here are tips on how to prepare.
The new program, Direct File, helped low- and moderate-income taxpayers file their returns more easily, and had been expanding.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Everything in the shop appeared to have been abandoned. A devoted customer took it all home and started selling the items herself.
By Ron Lieber and Audra Melton
Niche is the latest company to help families predict what they might pay. If only colleges would do more.
A federal rule restricting the debt’s inclusion has been canceled. Now, the consumer bureau is trying to overturn state restrictions.
The Federal Reserve’s rate cut will reduce investor returns, yet money market funds remain a good deal, our columnist says.
Sometimes even your most valiant efforts aren’t enough to get you to the gate on time. Here are some ways to get your trip back on track.
A new rule could disqualify certain employers from the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program that are deemed to be engaged in “illegal activities.”
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Despite reassuring bond returns lately, troubles abound in what was once a sleepy haven for risk-averse investors.
Some banks are offering a pause on payments on certain loans, waiving late fees and providing no-interest loans.
By Tara Siegel Bernard and Ron Lieber
Recently, we put together a template to help medical professionals explain a confusing process. Readers gave us very pointed feedback, so we updated it.
Sometimes rugs stain and mirrors break despite your best efforts to be careful. Here’s how to protect yourself and enjoy the rest of your trip.
Significant growth over multiple seasons has earned professional women’s basketball a wider audience, and with it higher prices.
Roadblocks for today’s young adults include fewer entry-level jobs, rising debt and increasing reliance on debit cards or “buy now, pay later” loans.
Hailed as a win for borrowers, the agreement will enable more enrollees in income-driven repayment plans to have their remaining debt canceled.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Nearly two dozen private colleges are offering an online tool that factors in need-based grants and scholarships to estimate students’ actual costs.
Born during the Biden administration, the market’s bull run almost ended in April, but stocks got a second wind with the artificial intelligence boom.
A growing number of Americans are making thousands by exploiting credit card reward offers.
After a halt for most of the year, borrowers enrolled in one income-driven repayment plan may begin to receive loan discharges within weeks.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Financial tech companies are connecting outside financial advisers to your retirement accounts, and at least one investment firm, Fidelity, is resisting.
Despite domestic and global tumult, the third quarter was fabulous for investors. But are the good times over?
A retiree logged into his wife’s Roth I.R.A. to make a trade, and stumbled upon a crime scene.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
Rising use “is not a signal of satisfaction,” an author of a new report says. Rather, heavy users of the apps are under “financial strain.”
President Trump wants the S.E.C. to reduce the frequency of corporate earnings reports. Our columnist says it’s a reasonable experiment, but at a dangerous time.
Retirement, survivor and disability payments will continue, but some services may be temporarily unavailable.
By Tara Siegel Bernard
The pros and cons of buying travel on a layaway plan.
Employers say they are facing the biggest increase in health costs in more than a decade — almost 9 percent on average. Workers’ best option, experts say, is to carefully weigh various plans.
Shutdowns have long been immaterial for the stock and bond markets, but there’s a risk now that a political confrontation could derail the economy.
After this year’s staffing cuts, some people wait for hours, others sail through. But overburdened field office workers carry the weight.
By Tara Siegel Bernard