article_id: nyt_83
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/nick-corasaniti?page=5
title: Nick Corasaniti
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I cover voting, democracy and other election-related issues. I also focus on local races in state legislatures, cities and county boards, the kind of elections deeply connected to the functioning of American democracy.
I have been covering elections — presidential, congressional, gubernatorial, mayoral, legislative and local campaigns — for The Times since 2011.
For a few years, I was The Times’s New Jersey correspondent, a cherished gig for this proud native New Jerseyan, responsible for covering the politics, policy, people, trains, beaches and eccentricities that give the Garden State its charm. (And for those wondering, it’s Taylor ham .)
I joined The Times in 2008 as an overnight news assistant on what was then called the Web Desk, back when news organizations were still figuring out the internet. I currently split time between Brooklyn and Asbury Park, and I wrote an oral history of the Stone Pony, an iconic music venue, for HarperCollins.
As a Times journalist, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in The Times’s Ethical Journalism Handbook .
Email: nick.corasaniti@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
Pressured by President Trump, Gov. Jared Polis said he is considering the release of Tina Peters, the last high-profile 2020 election meddler still imprisoned. His fellow Democrats are outraged.
By Jack Healy, Nick Corasaniti and Alan Feuer
Hours after a district judge ordered the county to keep its polling places open, the Texas Supreme Court temporarily blocked the decision.
By Kellen Browning, Nick Corasaniti and Jesus Jiménez
This was featured in live coverage.
The state’s congressional map looks much different, and so do those in other states across the country.
This was featured in live coverage.
By Jennifer Medina and Nick Corasaniti
The Texas attorney general is vying for the Republican nomination for Senate in Tuesday’s primary.
The court is set to decide a major case that could scramble the country’s congressional maps. One crucial factor for this year’s elections is when the ruling lands.
By Nick Corasaniti, Ashley Wu and Elena Shao
The president appears to be undermining Americans’ faith in the outcome, at a moment when Republicans face an uphill climb to keep control of Congress.
By Shane Goldmacher and Nick Corasaniti
A proposed ballot measure to give Democrats more seats for the 2028 and 2030 elections signals that the nation’s gerrymandering fight is likely to persist for years.
By Nick Corasaniti and Reid J. Epstein
There are more Black senators than ever before, but a major Supreme Court ruling could reduce Black representation in the House.
By Reid J. Epstein and Nick Corasaniti
Even in a government full of conspiracists, Kurt Olsen stands out. He made a key referral in the Fulton County, Ga., election case.
By Shawn McCreesh, Alexandra Berzon and Nick Corasaniti
Our reporters analyzed the document, which showed how a criminal inquiry into the 2020 election in Fulton County, Ga., stemmed from a referral from an election denier who works in the Trump administration.
By Alan Feuer, Nick Corasaniti and Richard Fausset
A newly unsealed affidavit showed that a criminal investigation into the 2020 election in Fulton County, Ga., relied heavily on claims about ballots that have been widely debunked.
By Devlin Barrett, Nick Corasaniti and Richard Fausset
The ruling from a Trump-appointed federal judge is the third in recent weeks to reject the administration’s demand for voters’ personal data from nearly every state.
By Mattathias Schwartz and Nick Corasaniti
Tulsi Gabbard has focused on attacking the so-called deep state after an uneven first year as the director of national intelligence.
By Julian E. Barnes, Tyler Pager and Glenn Thrush
The president has escalated his language as his administration takes steps to involve itself more in election matters.
As they appeal a ruling blocking their redistricting efforts, the state’s Democrats proposed redrawing districts in a way that would strongly favor them.
By Nick Corasaniti and Reid J. Epstein
Some top state election officials, who run voting across the country, worry that the federal government has become hostile to them and their work.
The county filed a motion demanding the return of ballots and other election materials that were seized by the F.B.I. in a highly unusual move by the Trump administration.
By Nick Corasaniti and Richard Fausset
The F.B.I seized ballots, voter rolls and scanner images from Fulton County, Ga. Our politics reporter Nick Corasaniti explains how the seizure signals President Trump’s willingness to use the powers of federal law enforcement to intervene in election matters, as the 2026 midterms approach. An earlier version of this video misstated which items were seized by the F.B.I. in its raid of a voting site in Atlanta. Agents seized tapes from voting machines, but not voting machines themselves.
By Nick Corasaniti, Nikolay Nikolov, Alexandra Ostasiewicz, Joey Sendaydiego, Gilad Thaler and Thomas Vollkommer
President Trump’s extraordinary comments were the latest iteration of his unsubstantiated claims that U.S. elections are rigged as Republicans face potentially big losses this fall.
By Erica L. Green, Michael Gold and Robert Jimison
The state’s House of Delegates passed a new map that would be likely to eliminate Maryland’s lone remaining Republican seat in the U.S. House, but the State Senate may well block the measure.
By Nick Corasaniti and Campbell Robertson
The comments, made on a conservative podcast, follow a string of moves from his administration to try to exert more control over American elections.
By Reid J. Epstein and Nick Corasaniti
Tulsi Gabbard, the director of national intelligence, brokered the call and President Trump directly questioned frontline agents on the inquiry, The Times has learned.
By William K. Rashbaum, Devlin Barrett and Julian E. Barnes
The search might also be a harbinger of things to come, signaling the president’s disposition to use the powers of law enforcement to intervene in election matters as the 2026 midterms approach.
By Glenn Thrush, Nick Corasaniti, Julian E. Barnes, Alan Feuer and Richard Fausset
The Trump administration has recently escalated its efforts to prove widespread voter fraud in 2020. Election officials and top Republicans have repeatedly said these claims are baseless.
By Reid J. Epstein and Nick Corasaniti
F.B.I. agents searched a Fulton County, Ga., election center for ballots from 2020, escalating an investigation of a heavily Democratic jurisdiction the president has criticized over his defeat.
By Devlin Barrett, Richard Fausset and Nick Corasaniti
Now a top aide to Kristi Noem, the homeland security secretary, Mr. Lewandowski has a long history of controversy in President Trump’s orbit, but he has always found a way back from exile.
By Nick Corasaniti and Hamed Aleaziz
Gov. Tim Walz and the mayor of Minneapolis, Jacob Frey, met separately with the Trump aide Tom Homan on Tuesday. All three described the discussions as a productive starting point.
By Anushka Patil, Ernesto Londoño and Nick Corasaniti
The Justice Department has urged Minnesota to hand over voters’ private data. It is part of a national push that has raised concerns about the Trump administration’s motives.
Two leaders of a political security group talked about what they’re seeing and hearing.
Ms. Tafoya, once a sideline reporter for N.F.L. games, has more recently turned her focus to Republican politics. She is seeking an open seat now held by a Democrat.
With control of the narrowly divided House set to be decided by a small fraction of the chamber's seats, a wave of strategic redistricting and a flood of retirements will play a role in the 2026 midterms.
By Ashley Cai and Shane Goldmacher
Republican election officials welcome the review, which relies on a federal verification tool, but they say they have not discovered a major problem when it comes to noncitizen voters.
By Alexandra Berzon and Nick Corasaniti
As the race to gerrymander House districts narrows to a few states, Democrats are trying to go on offense. But a Supreme Court ruling could give Republicans a major edge.
By Nick Corasaniti and Reid J. Epstein
Kicking off his re-election bid, the Pennsylvania governor warned against federal overreach and promised, “I will not let anyone mess with a Pennsylvanian.”
For their heroics after a wave of bomb threats in New Jersey on Election Day, more than two dozen dogs were presented with an award from the state attorney general.
By Nick Corasaniti and Amir Hamja
Hundreds of thousands of Americans in rural and urban areas alike could see their votes rejected if the court decides that ballots must arrive by Election Day.
By Nick Corasaniti and Christine Zhang
The early backing of Ms. Kirk, the widow of Charlie Kirk, is notable because she now leads the influential conservative group he founded, Turning Point USA.
By Lisa Lerer and Nick Corasaniti
President Trump’s failure to ram through a Republican-friendly House map was a new sign that his iron grip on the party has slipped, and was likely to reverberate nationally.
By Nick Corasaniti and Mitch Smith
He is a close ally of President Trump and has been a leading proponent of the election denial movement, which falsely claims that voting machines are often rigged.
Republicans hold an overwhelming majority in the Indiana Senate, but more than a dozen of them defied the president’s wishes, voting against a map aimed at adding Republicans in Congress.
The arm of the party that focuses on statehouses is targeting hundreds of seats and more than 40 chambers, according to a strategy memo, reflecting Democrats’ new optimism.
Redistricting talks in Florida got off to a slow start on Thursday, as state lawmakers grapple with political and legal questions amid internal power struggles.
By Patricia Mazzei and Nick Corasaniti
Texas officials had asked the court to allow the state to use the new maps in the midterm elections, part of a push by President Trump to gain a partisan advantage.
As partisan battles rage and courts wrangle proposals, the relentless pace of the calendar will force states to act — or land in murky legal ground.
By Nick Corasaniti, Ashley Wu and Taylor Robinson
Republican leaders in the legislature backtracked and said they would vote on a new congressional map that President Trump wants, though support remained uncertain.
Thanks to Newsom, Trump and redistricting, the deep-blue state is in the thick of national politics.
By Nick Corasaniti and Laurel Rosenhall
The move dealt a blow to efforts by Texas Republicans and President Trump to flip Democratic seats in the state. Texas quickly filed a notice of appeal to the Supreme Court.
By Nick Corasaniti and J. David Goodman
Ten Democratic officials who oversee elections in their states sent a letter to Attorney General Pam Bondi and Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem demanding answers on how private voter data was being used.