article_id: nyt_85
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/baby-kid/pregnancy-nursing/
title: Pregnancy and nursing
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
by Courtney Schley and Caitlin Giddings
We pumped a collective 350 ounces of breast milk to find the best bra and other tools to make pumping milk for your baby a bit easier and more efficient.
by Caitlin Giddings and Coco McCracken
If you want to be able to pump breast milk for your baby hands-free when you’re on the go, a “wearable” breast pump may be for you.
A better breast pump has the potential to make the significant chore of pumping milk for your baby more efficient, comfortable, and, ultimately, more gratifying.
A great nursing bra offers easy access for feedings — as well as plenty of comfort and support. We tested 17 bras with 12 breastfeeding moms to find the best.
by Kerry Davis McGuinness
Nursing pillows come in a variety of shapes and sizes. These are the ones we love.
You probably don’t need a bottle warmer. But if you want one, we have two to recommend.
A baby bottle is an essential tool during the first year. After extensive testing, we recommend the Lansinoh Feeding Bottle as the bottle to try first.
When my postpartum period was rough and painful, this peri bottle was the only thing that brought me relief.
by Christina Szalinski
After reading studies, talking to experts, and examining 60-plus baby formulas, we think Member’s Mark Infant Premium and Kirkland Signature ProCare Non-GMO Infant formulas are the ones to try first.
by Samantha Schoech and Mari Uyehara
Help a new mom out! Or simply delight her with one of these thoughtful, useful, and just-plain-cute gifts.
The baby gifts on this list are not only cute and useful but could also become a new family’s favorite things.
First Response Early Result is the most sensitive home pregnancy test. We also have recommendations for digital tests, test strips, and store-brand tests.
There is no such a thing as a perfect nursing bra. This comfortable bralette from Rihanna’s lingerie company is still making a mark.
More conversations about postpartum nipples, please. This tiny tub of waxy goodness has gotten me through 11 months of nursing over the years.
Electric breast pumps have dominated as the optimal pump for busy moms. But the only thing that worked for me was going analog.
These were some of the most popular Wirecutter picks for babies and kids in 2023.
by Christina Szalinski
A safety recall and pandemic-related supply issues have made some baby formulas hard to find. If you can’t find your child’s usual formula, you have options.
by Christina Szalinski
Bobbie and ByHeart are two new American-made baby formula brands. Their waiting lists are long.
by Christina Szalinski
There are dozens of different baby formulas available in the US, yet some parents seek out European brands. We explain the pros and cons.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).