article_id: nyt_86
url: https://www.nytimes.com/topic/subject/marijuana-and-medical-marijuana?page=7
title: Marijuana and Medical Marijuana
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
A dispute between the nonprofit Housing Works and the owner of a cannabis dispensary shows the risks for businesses in an industry that is locked out of traditional financing and resources.
A majority of the justices voiced concerns that the law may be overbroad, lumping together occasional drug users with addicts who threaten public safety.
Sin Tung Chan was a member of a prominent hometown association in the city, one of hundreds of social clubs that often maintain close ties with the Chinese government.
By Jay Root, Michael Forsythe and Bianca Pallaro
Readers respond to an editorial about the legalization and regulation of marijuana. Also: The Trump administration’s attack on climate science.
A federal law taking effect in November severely limits the amount of THC, the euphoric cannabis compound, allowed in over-the-counter items. Many groups are fighting back.
Legalization of the drug without much regulation has led to public health challenges.
By Emily Bazelon, David Leonhardt, German Lopez and Jillian Weinberger
Given the growing harms from marijuana use, American lawmakers should do more to regulate it.
By The Editorial Board
In “A Killing in Cannabis,” Scott Eden tells the story of a man who tried to straddle the lines between the legal and black-market cannabis worlds, with deadly consequences.
Researchers believe increasing use of cannabis may be contributing to a rise in new cases of schizophrenia and related disorders at younger ages.
The “High Maintenance” co-creator and star Ben Sinclair delves into his complicated relationship with marijuana in a new Substack called “Low Maintenance.”
Efforts to get the state’s Office of Cannabis Management on track have been slow to yield results.
In China, trafficking marijuana is punishable by death. But in the United States, it has become a lucrative sideline for some favored sons of the motherland.
By Jay Root, Bianca Pallaro, Michael Forsythe and Shuran Huang
Primero fue la embarcación calcinada. Luego los cuerpos destrozados y los paquetes con restos de marihuana. Ahora, los pescadores temen zarpar al océano que los alimenta.
By Max Bearak, Simón Posada, Christiaan Triebert and Federico Rios
First came the scorched boat. Then the mangled bodies. Then the packets with traces of marijuana. Now, fishermen fear the ocean that feeds them.
By Max Bearak, Simón Posada, Christiaan Triebert and Federico Rios
Plus, your Friday news quiz.
By Tracy Mumford, Will Jarvis and Ian Stewart
Moving cannabis to a category of drugs that includes some common medicines will have implications for research, businesses and patients.
All policy decisions have trade-offs, and cannabis legalization is no exception.
Marijuana was downgraded from a Schedule I drug to a Schedule III drug on Thursday. The reclassification does not legalize cannabis, but it does ease restrictions on the substance and allows for more research.
Marijuana’s classification as one of the most dangerous and habit-forming substances has long drawn criticism.
By Luke Broadwater and Ashley Southall
Researchers found a chasm between the health reasons for which the public seeks out cannabis and what gold-standard science actually shows about its effectiveness.
A case against the Long Island-based cannabis company Omnium Health was halted on the eve of trial. A judge on Tuesday held off on dropping the matter.
Gov. Kathy Hochul demanded the resignation of the head of New York’s Office of Cannabis Management following the withdrawal of a case against a Long Island-based company.
Una encuesta entre 5000 usuarios reveló que más del 60 por ciento lo utiliza para la ansiedad. La pregunta clave es: ¿de verdad ayuda?
Sidney, N.Y., in the Catskill Mountains, hoped to attract job-creating businesses. But there was some unease when the recreational cannabis company Stiiizy moved in.
By Ashley Southall and Adrianna Newell
Una nueva guía revela cómo la junta de clasificaciones sopesa el desnudo, el consumo de marihuana y las imágenes violentas en la gran pantalla.
Researchers set up a makeshift bar on a college campus to test how much people wanted to drink after they smoked cannabis.
The movie ratings board has pulled back the curtain on how it approaches hot-button topics, including nudity, marijuana and guns.
El proceso penal contra Paul Smith, en Nueva Zelanda, lo ha convertido en una figura emblemática entre los defensores del cannabis y los cientos de personas cuyo dolor se alivió gracias a su cultivo.
A police raid and criminal case against a longtime cultivator of cannabis in New Zealand’s Northland region has stirred up debates about medicinal marijuana.
Critics complain that state officials have given little guidance since ordering a recall of some $30 million in cannabis products. The delay, they say, could undermine confidence in the legal market.
The license for Omnium Health could be revoked after an investigation found that it let other companies use its facilities in an illegal arrangement.
State officials awarded $5 million in grants to 50 nonprofit organizations that provide services to young people in areas that were targeted for marijuana arrests.
The inquiry is focused on $10 million that the charity received last year, then gave to political committees that helped Gov. Ron DeSantis defeat a ballot measure.
It was the therapy we needed, and the fun we deserved, after decades of estrangement.
By Julian Brave NoiseCat
Marijuana during pregnancy is linked to poor birth outcomes and developmental delays in children, a leading medical society advised.
Dispensaries had sued the state after a change in the buffer zone between cannabis shops and schools placed some within a zone banning cannabis sales.
The effort to penalize the facility, Lexachrom Analytical Laboratory, comes amid a state push to investigate testing irregularities in the weed industry.
With their “One Toke Over the Line,” he and Michael Brewer saw a musical in-joke turn into a timeless cultural phenomenon.
Potent California-grown marijuana is so popular in the U.K. that large quantities are being illegally smuggled on passenger flights, officials say.
New York depends on private labs to test cannabis products’ potency and check for contaminants. Some industry experts say the tests are not reliable.
By Ashley Southall and Urvashi Uberoy
The once-ubiquitous ashtray is making a revival as an object of curiosity or a resting place for weed.
After he was paralyzed in an accident, his use of marijuana for medical purposes led him to become one of the nation’s most influential cannabis activists.
Last month, dozens of cannabis businesses were told they were located too close to schools after state officials acknowledged having misinterpreted regulations.
A federal appeals court said that it appeared to be unconstitutional for New York to give some of its own residents priority for licenses to open cannabis businesses.
As products like weed gummies proliferate, more children and teens are suffering symptoms including seizures and life-threatening breathing problems.
By Danielle Ivory, Julie Tate and Megan Twohey
Sarah Stogner, a Republican district attorney in Texas oil country, recorded herself smoking a joint that she bought legally in New Mexico.
State cannabis regulators suddenly changed a rule governing how close dispensaries can be to schools, upending dozens of owners’ plans.
State regulators said that a misreading of the law that legalized cannabis in New York allowed some shops to open in unsuitable locations. Those businesses may be uprooted now.
The restaurant mistakenly used oil infused with THC, a psychoactive ingredient found in many cannabis products, in food preparation last year, the C.D.C. said.
By Alexandra E. Petri
Aparentemente los agentes utilizaron munición antidisturbios y gases lacrimógenos contra los manifestantes. El FBI dijo que estaba buscando a quien pareció disparar contra los agentes.
By Livia Albeck-Ripka
Officers appeared to use crowd control munitions and tear gas against protesters. The F.B.I. said it was searching for a person who appeared to fire a pistol at officers.
By Livia Albeck-Ripka
Federal agents fired crowd control munitions at protesters who blocked a road outside of the farm. Some demonstrators threw objects at the agents’ vehicles.
The Correction Department said Bernardo Caceres’s papers tested positive for THC, a cannabinoid. Then officials tested the papers again.
Young adults are drinking less alcohol and seeking more connection, and New York’s dispensaries are putting themselves out there as alternative gathering spaces.
The governor of Texas blocked what would have been one of the nation’s strictest bans on hemp products, and directed legislators to take up regulation of hemp in a special session.
The evidence is stacking up that the drug is associated with a greater likelihood of heart problems.
Gov. Greg Abbott must decide this week whether to sign or veto a bill to ban hemp-derived intoxicants, part of a national debate over the fast-growing industry.
The anti-establishment magazine, which was taken over by a private equity firm in 2017, was purchased this week by an avid fan and reader for $3.5 million.
Readers respond to the Trump administration’s pause on some deportation raids. Also: A former congressman writes about cannabis policy.
Bernardo Caceres was at New York City’s jail complex to meet with a client when an envelope he had drew the attention of a Correction Department dog, officials said.
More older people are using cannabis products regularly, but research suggests their cannabis-related health problems are also on the rise.
The Dutch food authority said cannabis had been detected in samples of the candy, and the police said it had made several people ill.
Removing marijuana from the government’s most restrictive class of drugs had rare bipartisan support last year. But the D.E.A. slowed the effort and legal challenges followed.
With the court orders that allowed the city to seal illicit cannabis stores starting to expire, questions remain about whether the shops could reopen.
Regulators are looking into whether several cannabis companies are making illegal products for sale in New York. The products may be worth more than $10 million.
Florida and Arkansas both recently added restrictions to the citizen amendment process, after ballot measures to expand abortion rights were successful in other states.
Before it was a legal dispensary where the mayor hoped to raise campaign funds, the site held an illicit weed shop raided by the city. Some of its operators are still around.
Users needing emergency care or hospitalization were more likely to later develop dementia, researchers reported. That does not prove cannabis was the cause.
When Lucas Kerr decided to revive the farm that had been in his family for seven generations, he chose to plant weed, grown in New York and sold to New Yorkers.
By Colette Coleman and Tony Cenicola
New York State is investigating some of America’s biggest cannabis brands over a tactic that has become pervasive in the absence of strong oversight.