article_id: nyt_87
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/home-garden/storage-home-garden/
title: Storage
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
In a small bathroom, every sliver of space you can make into storage is precious. Here’s how I turned an overlooked spot into extra organization on the cheap.
Keeping batteries organized is often an afterthought, but when the TV remote is dead, and you want to watch your favorite show, it couldn’t be more important.
After testing over a dozen jewelry boxes and organizers, we found our favorites for storing everything from costume jewelry to heirloom pieces.
My many bedside accoutrements proved too much for a mere nightstand to handle. But the mess was reined in by the Youdenova Bedside Caddy.
It turns out that my partner and I very much needed a dedicated storage solution for our 40-plus pairs of shoes.
After years of testing, these seven storage bins, boxes, and totes are our favorites for keeping stuff clean and dry, inside or out.
Whether your closet is tiny and unruly or massive and overflowing, we’ve tested and found the best solutions for keeping everything in order.
A label maker inspires even the most disorganized people to get tidy, and the best one we’ve found is the Brother P-touch PT-N25BT .
We talked to designers and professional organizers, and spent dozens of hours testing and researching, to find the best ways to style and organize small entryways.
by Alex Arpaia and Dorie Chevlen
After rigorous testing, we found several coat racks that impressed us with their functionality and style.
Functional hooks are plentiful, stylish hooks exist. The trick is finding both in one package. Here are 11 that our staff use and love for reducing clutter.
If your important files dance between a pile on the kitchen table and an unmarked box in the garage, it’s time to develop a proper filing system.
by Frances Solá-Santiago
The built-in shoe wall of your dreams may actually be a bookcase. Here’s why.
by Rachel Hurn and Wirecutter Staff
Keeping toys and nursery items organized is a constant challenge for many parents. We have some time-tested solutions.
Outfitting a small home takes some planning, but the right gear can make all the difference. Here are our best recommendations for small spaces.
We researched dozens of storage benches and tested 17 to find the best ones for storing odds and ends and adding extra seating.
We’ve been testing vacuum sealers since 2017. Our pick is the Anova Precision Vacuum Sealer Pro .
I was skeptical that these drawers would indeed improve my day-to-day, but I’m pleased to report they really do tame the chaos under my bathroom sink.
by Maria Adelmann and Kit Dillon
Here’s how the former head curator of the Met would store your most precious garments — from wedding dresses to family heirlooms — for the long haul.
If I can't see it, it basically doesn't exist—but these organizers help me see things clearly, even if they’re not so cute.
Trying to recycle the wrong packaging gunks up the works at overtaxed recycling centers. Here’s what to sort in your bins and what to throw in the trash.
After testing 40 sets of food-storage containers since 2015, we recommend Pyrex Freshlock and Snapware Total Solution Pyrex glass containers and Snapware Total Solution plastic containers .
How to (creatively) hide bulky items around a small apartment. Plus: a portable kitchen island and a handsome caddy for your cleaning potions.
Wirecutter’s powering reporter shares the items she swears by for keeping her cords, cables, and wires organized.
Keeping your supplies handy can go a long way toward starting—and actually finishing—your cleaning tasks.
Packing shelves are meant to make packing and unpacking a breeze - but do they work? We put them to the test.
Living in a small space and having a penchant for “I could build that” requires lots of creative storage solutions.
Most fireproof safes are rated for only two hours or less in extreme heat. They’re good to have during a typical house fire but may fail in wildfire conditions.
A tidy linen closet is possible, even if you hate folding sheets. Our bedding expert, along with four professional organizers, shows you how.
Our advice columnist shares tips on how to organize a messy spice drawer—and how to keep it that way.
Your catchall drawer doesn’t have to be full of junk. Stock up on useful tools you’ll reach for time and again.
We consulted four small-space experts to help you decide what to buy (and not buy) to optimize your small apartment.
The actor and home decor influencer shares what he uses to organize his prized possessions—and how he’s curated a storage space that feels like an art gallery.
by Dorie Chevlen and Kit Dillon
Our expert-backed moving checklist has all the tips and advice you need to make moving less stressful.
Whether you want to stash cannabis and THC edibles away from pets and kids or keep medicine under lock and key, these are the best lockboxes available.
by Rachelle Bergstein
My tiny living room is a home office, gym and kiddie classroom. It’s a dizzying amount of activity for one 10’x13’ room to handle.
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).