article_id: nyt_89
url: https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/best-bike-patch-kit/
title: Build a Bike Patch and Flat Kit
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
We independently review everything we recommend. When you buy through our links, we may earn a commission. Learn more ›
If you own a bike, you need a flat-fixing kit. It’s really that simple.
Sure, maybe you’ll get lucky and get a flat close to a shop, or the buses will be running on time for once, but even with all that going for you, getting stranded will cost you time, money, and precious sanity.
(If you’re running tubeless tires filled with sealant, you may feel immune to flats. Still, we’ve never regretted having a flat-fixing kit with us, even in those circumstances.)
You can put together a great kit in less time than it takes to read this guide.
We sorted through 40 tire levers, almost 30 different kinds of patches, and nearly 60 seat bags before we narrowed our choices for testing.
And then we changed and patched tires more than 50 times, using four different bikes, five different wheels, six different tires, and almost 10 different sizes of tubes.
After more than 100 hours of combined testing, we agree these essentials are some of the best you can buy.
We have been testing gear to help bike commuters keep riding since 2015. For this guide, writer Eve O’Neill did the following over the years:
We focused on tools that would be useful to a commuter — someone trying to use a bike as a functional way to get around town, as opposed to riding recreationally (road biking and mountain biking).
That said, it’s a wild and woolly bicycling world out there, and the streets are packed with so many different bikes, all shapes and sizes, new and old. Customizing your flat-fixing kit has advantages over buying a preassembled kit that always contains a tool (or two or three) that’s a piece of junk, or you don’t need. Or it’s missing something you do need.
If you build your own kit, at least you know everything works. And you can add only what’s necessary for your specific bike without ending up with stuff you don’t need.
Road riders need lightweight, tiny, pricey tools that can fit into jersey pockets. Commuters don’t have to be as concerned with weight, so unless you covet something specific, don’t spend the extra money.
Mountain bikers are in a different world of repair entirely, one that borders on the comedic absurd. It includes large pumps designed to fill up big, fat tires that squish over things, and a medley of assorted slimes meant to be injected into tires. In that world, the number of days it takes you to fix your tire and return from the wilderness is a badge of courage — bonus points if you’re bleeding — and we’re guessing that’s not what you’re going for next time you set out for groceries.
Commuters need products that are effective and reliable. The day you need them, they have to work. The essentials listed in this guide are the items you must have if you ever hope to get going again after having a flat. If you do nothing else, pick up these three things and take a second to learn how to use them.
After pumping up more than 600 tires, we recommend the Specialized Air Tool Comp floor pump for everyday use and the Topeak Gravel 2Stage mini pump for on-the-go inflation.
The ruffled, beveled edges of these patches ensure a leakproof, permanent repair.
A good patch will stick to your tube enough to keep air from leaking out. A great patch will act like a second skin and actually strengthen the tube where it’s applied, flexing and stretching with the tire. After 36 hours of testing, our official endorsement goes to the Rema TT 02 Touring Repair Kit . Its patches do everything other patches do, just better. The edge of the patch is also ruffled, which provides more edge surface area to bond — that’s a good thing.
Patch kits come with patches in a few different sizes, a small bit of sandpaper, and a tube of vulcanizer. Vulcanizer is the “glue.” Cari Z, who was a mechanic at Bay Area Bikes at the time of our interview, explained, “Vulcanization is the chemical bonding process that takes place between patches” and the tube.
There are patches that don’t require vulcanizer — the infamous peel-and-stick. One brand, the Park Tool GP-2 , has some genuinely enthusiastic endorsements, so we tested it. Eve applied Park Tool patches to four different tires, at three different psi levels (60, 90, and 120). Three of the four didn’t hold — two released within minutes. The fourth deflated overnight. She redid the test, but repeated a second time, they all leaked within a day.
In addition to the Rema patches, put a new tire tube in your kit. The best method for dealing with a flat roadside is to swap out the tube and save the task of patching for later. If you’re not sure what size your tires are, it’s printed on the sidewall of the tire. What brand is almost irrelevant as many tubes get manufactured in the same place, so whatever your local shop has behind the counter for under $10 will work fine. The only reason to spend more would be to save weight.
Now you might be wondering: “I’m carrying a spare tube; why carry patches at all?” As insurance for the unforeseeable. Wirecutter senior editor Christine Ryan admits she didn’t use to pack them, but said, “I’ve regretted that decision when I’ve had a flat on a ride, used my spare tube, and then, half an hour later, had a second flat. Also, lots of people aren’t very good at figuring out — or don’t take the time to figure out — what caused their flat and remove the cause: thorn, eensy bit of glass, whatever. Then they promptly have a second flat, and everyone else laughs at them.”
So don’t get laughed at by your cycling brethren — be the hero instead. Always check your tire for what caused the flat, get rid of it, and drag around a patch kit just in case you or someone else needs it.
Pedro’s levers are cheap, effective, light, and near indestructible.
Every expert Eve spoke to recommended Pedro’s Tire Levers by name. They have a wide body — a different shape than other models we tested — which prevents breakage, but more important, the broad, flat surface area of the tip helps it stay locked under your tire. When a lever slips from under the bead of the tire, you can end up repeatedly scraping your knuckles on the spokes of the wheel, which is so annoying. Pedro’s levers are small enough to fit into a saddlebag, are sold widely in bike shops, and even come with a lifetime guarantee. If one breaks, Pedro’s will replace it.
More than any other tool in the kit, a reliable lever makes changing a tire easier, especially if you have road bike tires, which can be difficult to remove. However, throughout testing, levers seemed to be the one item more prone to failure and poor design than anything else. For example, Eve found a random orange lever floating around her basement and she threw it in the test pool for fun — it seemed solid enough ... until she began prying at the rim of a tire. It bent directly in half, slowly and smoothly, like taffy, and then was boomerang shaped forevermore.
The Pedro’s lever slipped only once throughout testing, though that may have been Eve’s fault because she was spaced out after changing 16 different tires. So they’re not foolproof, but they are far and away more reliable than the next closest competitor, from Park Tool, because the small, rounded tip on that one is hard to keep seated under the tire. Not impossible, but we wouldn’t choose it over Pedro’s.
This sleek, pocketable, minimalistic tool gets most jobs done.
Writer Peter Flax, a former editor-in-chief of Bicycling magazine, rode over 1,000 miles and tested 15 tools for our now-archived full-length guide to multi-tools, and he concluded the Topeak Mini 9 is the best for casual cyclists. Many of us on staff at Wirecutter still rely on the Mini 9.
It’s tiny, it’s light, it’s easier to get some leverage with than other tools that have different designs. It’s not meant for serious wrenching on your bike, but it’s good for on-the-fly adjustments.
It includes nine tools: seven hex bolts, one torx bolt (the star-shaped one), and a Phillips screwdriver (the X-shaped one). If you have a newer mountain bike or road bike it pays to take a quick look at what types of tools you need, as torx bolts are becoming more common. And a quick glance at the bottom of your shoes (if you use clipless pedals, that is) or derailleur bolts will confirm if a Phillips head is the right choice.
Otherwise, this tool should serve the average commuter well. Specifically, we think you’ll find the size 4, 5, and 6 hex keys, extremely common sizes in bicycles, very helpful. They’ll adjust seat-post heights or let you remove the saddle entirely, or tighten a loose stem that’s always rattling apart. The Phillips head will tighten loose bolts on shoe cleats or the rear derailleur. The most common use for the torx would be adjusting disc brakes if you have ’em.
Constructed identically to models that cost much more, this bag comes in three sizes. The medium one will hold a spare tube, a pair of tire levels, and a multi-tool — most of what you need to get back on your way.
The BV Bicycle Strap-On Saddle Bag is the best option for your money. Sure, it’s some random brand on Amazon, but after we compared eight popular models, we noticed it’s identical to the better-known versions, has less Velcro (which is a big advantage), and costs half as much. (It comes in three sizes: small, medium, and large. We prefer the medium.)
On the left in the head-on-view photo above is the medium-size version of our pick, the BV, and on the right the Serfas Speed Bag, another option much loved by Amazon users. They’re both made from the same pattern and same materials, down to the mesh and key fob in the interior. The BV, however, costs almost $10 less.
One key difference, which you can see in the photo, is that the BV uses buckles instead of Velcro on the straps that attach the bag to the underside of the saddle, something much more important than it may seem. A pair of bike shorts (or any shorts) will shred quickly if they’re rubbing against that tiny bit of Velcro protruding from the side of the bag, and the Velcro sure to destroy expensive sweaters and gym clothes if you stuff the bag into your backpack or messenger bag.
The fabric attachment system is low-tech, but that seems to be helpful, as it can adapt to seat rails of different widths. One fancier option you might see on more expensive seat bags is a quick-release mount that you install under your saddle. But those have a fixed width, and therefore can fit under seats with only those exact specs. Brooks saddles, for example, are too wide for such mounts.
Still, these things are fairly standardized and if you have a newer bike it’s likely you’ll have no issue getting a quick release under there if you want — but check your bike first. And as such, we’ve found the adaptability of the strap mount to be a great advantage.
Which size is right for you? It depends. Seat bags aren’t supposed to carry windbreakers or bike locks or animals. They are meant for emergency tools.
This (see the photo above) is how your patch supplies fit into the size medium BV seat bag, or 100ish cubic inches. Tube sizes vary widely — this one is smallish, for a 700c road tire. A 26-inch tire, like you would see on a hybrid bike, is much bigger.
In spite of seat bags’ diminutive size, a lot of people really, really want them to accommodate more stuff. If that’s you, the medium and large seat bag have an extendable gill at the bottom, which you can see in the image up top. It zips open to create more room. With it unzipped, we could cram a wallet, keys, and phone inside the medium as well.
One flaw? Seat bags can block taillights. This one has a loop on the outside you can clip your blinker to.
You’ll need this if your bike’s wheels are bolted on, instead of being attached with quick-release skewers.
Some bikes, including older models and track bikes, have bolts attaching the wheels to the frame instead of quick-release levers. If your wheels are bolted on, in most cases you’ll need a 15 mm wrench to remove them. We didn’t test wrenches, because there aren’t that many tiny 15 mm wrenches, but the GearWrench 15mm 12-Point Stubby Combination Wrench is perfect for stuffing into a flat kit, and Amazon reviewers seem to think the same. Our experts also recommended the Surly Jethro Tule , but it’s expensive and harder to find.
First, we researched. We looked at Amazon’s top-rated products and their user reviews. Then we consulted Bicycling magazine , Gear Junkie , Bike Radar , Outside , and the occasional bit by Lennard Zinn via the old VeloNews. We also found some worthwhile discussions at Bike Forums . Then Eve spoke with four experts, Ramona Marks, Scott Karoly, Cari Z, and Alison Tetrick, riders from all across the spectrum, who tour, repair, and race.
Based on what we found, we chose the most relevant items and used them all. To test patches, Eve repaired holes using four different types of patches, from Novara (REI’s now-discontinued house brand), Park Tool, and Rema. Patching a tube isn’t hard but there are a few tricks, and the key was attention to detail and patience. She was extremely diligent in following proper patch procedure, which includes a thorough sanding of the entire area to be patched (for max stickiness) and properly letting the vulcanizer dry on both surfaces before applying. For the peel-and-stick patches, she went so far as to prep the area with canned air to ensure as tight a seal as we could possibly muster.
She tested four popular levers, including the Crankbrothers Speedier Lever, a Quik Stik, Pedro’s, and the ubiquitous blue Park Tool. We changed four different types of tires (mountain, hybrid, road, and track) with four different psi levels (40, 60, 90, 110) and watched how each performed.
Eve chose to test these four levers after eliminating everything out there that’s not appropriate for a roadside emergency kit. That includes metal levers. They’re durable, but according to touring cyclist Ramona Marks, “Metal tire levers are trouble. It’s possible to rip your tube even with the plastic ones if you’re not careful, so metal is out of the question, and you don’t want to put pressure against the wheel rim with a metal lever.” If you do, you’re asking for a bent rim, which means buying a new wheel.
We also eliminated metal-core levers, which are metal levers with a plastic outside coating. We eliminated everything that looked cheap, bendable, or breakable. We also eliminated long, large single levers that would be more comfortable sitting on your at-home tool bench and difficult to carry on a ride.
Finally, comparing seat bags was fun. The identical construction of every model revealed itself immediately. That always feels like a win. Then we used them: attached them all to the bike, inspected them for nefarious Velcro, and vetted basic usability to determine the best option.
The Park Tool Vulcanizing Patch Kit made effective repairs, but it wasn’t as good as the Rema.
We like, and recommend, the Crankbrothers Speedier Lever . If you have to pick only one, go with the Pedro’s. But if you want a backup or have some hard tires to unseat, Crankbrothers is a great choice. It’s only one lever (as opposed to a set of two, like the Pedro’s) and it’s longer, so we didn’t pick it over the Pedro’s for portability reasons. But it’s an excellent tool. It has a wide handle you can grip with your whole hand. Like the Pedro’s, the tip is the right size and shape to prevent slipping and stay in place, and the shape of the handle happens to protect your knuckles if you do slip.
Park Tool’s TL-1 Levers were Pedro’s stiffest competition because they’re so pervasive, but not from a literal stiffness standpoint. Bike shop employees had plenty of tales of broken Park Tools — they had none about the Pedro’s. In our testing the Park Tool levers slipped, too. Park Tool has since released a new version, the TL-1.2C Levers , which are still narrower than we’d like.
The Serfas Speed Bag has the same design as the BV, but costs nearly $10 more. It also attaches with Velcro, which isn’t ideal.
Topeak’s Aero Wedge Pack is a slightly different shape and size than the other bags we tested, and it worked fine, but it’s more expensive and didn’t have anything better to offer than our pick.
The mount for the Topeak Aero Wedge with QuickClick did fit Eve’d saddle, and the device worked as advertised. But for compatibility reasons, we like the basic models for most people.
Eve used the Lezyne Micro Caddy to see if a size below small would be an option for commuters, but it’s not big enough to hold larger tubes, the sleeves inside of it for levers can’t fit the wide Pedro’s, and it couldn’t fit her multi-tool (she has a pretty big one). Small is good, but this is too small, unless you’re a road cyclist.
The Lezyne Road Caddy opens like a clamshell to reveal your repair kit and then folds away into the perfect shape to store in a bag or backpack. (Many other companies have introduced their own versions of this design.) But again, this is designed specifically for road bikes and can’t fit a larger tube, restricting its practicality.
This article was edited by Christine Ryan.
Eve O'Neill is a former senior staff writer reporting on travel and outdoors at Wirecutter. She can remember the titles on her childhood bookshelf that set her in this direction: Into Thin Air, On The Road, The Call of the Wild . She has always been drawn to ideas about how to relate to, and play in, the wilderness.
Hard-core bike commuters share seven items—from storm-worthy gloves to rugged tires—that keep them (and their stuff) safe and dry in the winter.
by Caitlin Giddings and Wirecutter Staff
Wirecutter is the product recommendation service from The New York Times. Our journalists combine independent research with (occasionally) over-the-top testing so you can make quick and confident buying decisions. Whether it’s finding great products or discovering helpful advice, we’ll help you get it right (the first time).