article_id: nyt_9
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7073633/2026/02/26/nick-kurtz-athletics-extension-las-vegas/
title: As the A’s lock up their core, Nick Kurtz is ‘open and interested’ in a deal of his own
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Four members of the A's core have signed long-term contract extensions in the past 14 months. Nick Kurtz could potentially be the next one. Ross D. Franklin / AP
MESA, Ariz. — Contracts are deeply personal. Nobody but the player knows what’s truly best for himself and his family. Teammates understand this and tend to stay out of each other’s business.
The Athletics are different. Four members of the A’s lineup have signed long-term contract extensions in the past 14 months — and they have no problem telling Nick Kurtz to hurry up and join them.
“We pressure him every day,” said outfielder Lawrence Butler, laughing before an exhibition game Tuesday at Hohokam Stadium. “But we do it as friends. We just want him to be on our team for a long time. We don’t try to change anybody’s mind on any decisions. We just want him on our team.”
Who wouldn’t? Last season, Kurtz authored one of the most prolific performances for a player his age: 36 home runs, a 1.002 OPS and every first-place vote for the American League Rookie of the Year award.
Kurtz, a first baseman, turns 23 on March 12, and the A’s control his rights through 2030 (at least in the current system). Yet like Butler, Brent Rooker, Tyler Soderstrom and Jacob Wilson — who will earn a combined $281.5 million from the A’s on their new contracts — Kurtz wants to stay even longer.
“Definitely open and interested,” he said Tuesday, when asked about his willingness to sign a long-term deal. “It’s just about timing. I’m really happy for Sodie and Willy. They deserve it. They’re unbelievable players, so I’m happy for them that they signed on and they’re going to be A’s for a long time.”
Rooker and Butler made deals last offseason, and Soderstrom and Wilson followed this winter. Rooker, 31, got a five-year contract with a vesting option. The others — all 25 and under — each signed for seven years, plus a club option.
Kurtz, with his youth and power, would surely eclipse Soderstrom’s $86 million contract as the richest in franchise history. And the timing might finally be right for the A’s, whose long-awaited new ballpark is rising on the Las Vegas Strip.
“The four extensions we’ve signed the last 12 to 18 months — those aren’t the only four guys we’ve talked to,” said David Forst, the longtime A’s general manager. “We’re hopeful there will be more down the road.”
Naturally, Forst did not want to discuss Kurtz specifically. Still, it stands to reason that he is the kind of player the A’s would want to keep as long as possible, and the team has indeed made a long-term offer (as first reported by Joel Sherman of the New York Post).
With certainty about their future, the A’s can plan for a sustainable winner, not a series of short competitive cycles with an ever-changing roster. It’s been decades since they’ve had such a blueprint.
“The new city, the new ballpark, finally gives us the ability to do that, to afford those back-end salaries for the end of arbitration and free agency,” Forst said. “Who knows where free agency is going? We just saw $60 million a year for a free agent, so who knows? But, yeah, this would have been inconceivable three or four years ago, but with everything that’s ahead of us, we can afford this.”
If Kurtz follows historical precedents, what’s ahead for him could be special. Consider the players who have reached his figures in home runs (36) and slugging percentage (.619) in an age-22 season (or younger):
Yes, the A’s play their home games at a Pacific Coast League park in Sacramento and, yes, a position player allowed Kurtz’s final homer on his epic night in Houston last summer (four home runs, 19 total bases). But his effort coincided with induction weekend in Cooperstown – and Hall of Famers were buzzing about what Kurtz had done.
Kurtz recognizes that whichever path he’s embarked on, all-time greatness takes time. One of his favorite players, Ryan Howard (another left-handed first baseman with extreme power to all fields), broke down physically and declined sharply after age 31. At this point, Kurtz is nowhere close to Williams, DiMaggio, Foxx and the others.
“It’s cool to talk about it now, but it doesn’t really matter until you’re all finished up and you can look back and say you were as good as those guys,” Kurtz said. “I’m not really thinking about it much. It’s like, what is one year?
“I’m 22 years old. I’m worried about what I’m doing tomorrow, just trying to figure it out along the way. I’m still learning a whole lot about the game in general. So it’s cool to do that, but I’d rather be the guy who was (just) OK and won a bunch of World Series. I’d be totally good with that as well. So that’s what I keep my focus on.”
The A’s have a chance to be better than OK. They buried any hopes of contending last season by losing 20 of 21 games from May 14 through June 4. However, after that stretch, they went 53-46, despite trading All-Star closer Mason Miller to the San Diego Padres at the deadline.
That deal brought another possible pillar for the Las Vegas years, which are set to begin in 2028: Leo De Vries, a 19-year-old shortstop. He has played just 21 games above Class A, but Kurtz had played only five before last season. Kurtz, who was drafted fourth from Wake Forest in 2024, played 20 more games at Class AAA last April before forcing his way up.
“I’m done putting timetables on guys, because Nick has sort of broken the mold on that,” Forst said. “So I don’t know. The way Leo performed at the end of the season, he basically took over the Double-A playoffs with his performance. Who’s to say how quickly he can move this year?”
It would be hard for De Vries, or any rookie, to match the Kurtz phenomenon from last season. Kurtz — a native of Lancaster, Pa., who is every bit of 6-foot- 5 and 240 pounds — was christened “Big Amish” last spring by then-teammate Max Schuemann. It stuck when Kurtz earned his promotion in late April.
“I wasn’t fully bought into it,” said Kurtz, who is not Amish. “But then I was just like, ‘Screw it, I’ll just start doing something when I hit a double.’”
For doubles and home run trots, Kurtz pantomimes churning butter, which has to be a singular celebration in baseball history. He’s never churned butter for real, though.
“I mean, I’ve seen it,” he said.  I went on field trips when I was in elementary school to go to Amish farms and stuff like that. They definitely still do it, but I never have.”
In the clubhouse, the A’s have another nickname for Kurtz: “Gigantor,” which a miniature Owen Wilson calls a fully-grown Ben Stiller in “Night At The Museum.” It’s not just Kurtz’s size that makes teammates marvel; it’s how he uses it.
“His ability to mishit balls to the opposite field for home runs is one of the things that sets him apart,” Rooker said. “He doesn’t have to be on time, he doesn’t have to square it up. He’s big enough, strong enough, creates enough leverage and has enough bat speed to where he can just kind of flick balls to left field for homers. When you can do that, everything kind of gets easier for you.”
The spotlight will find a hitter like that, and Kurtz is part of the bat-flip generation; he’ll sometimes give a casual, yep-that’s-gone twirl of his Tater RA-13N on a long home run. He is polite and accommodating but not enthusiastic about stardom, even if it’s hard to blend in.
“He carries himself with a presence,” manager Mark Kotsay said. “Obviously, it’s easy when you’re that big to have a presence. But it’s soft. He’s not on you. As much success as he had, he doesn’t come in demanding attention or wanting to be noticed.”
Besides his adventurous pursuit of infield flies — “When a pop-up goes up, I just want him to stay on his feet,” Forst said — Kurtz has deftly adjusted to life in the majors. Pitchers attacked him differently as the year went on, and he adjusted back.
“When I first got called up, it was a lot of change-ups,” he said. “Then I started hitting them, and they started throwing kind of the kitchen sink at me, and then I was doing OK with that. Then, toward the end of the year, it was fastballs in. They’re trying not to let me get my arms extended and just beat me in, so I’m trying to do better at that.”
Kurtz hit 15 homers to left field, and another 13 to center or left-center. He hit two walk-off homers against the Houston Astros in the same June series — the one off Josh Hader was his favorite of the season, he said — and in September, he belted a 493-foot grand slam to center in Sacramento. It was the longest home run in the majors last season.
NICK KURTZ JUST SENT THIS GRAND SLAM TO THE MOON 😤 pic.twitter.com/pXS8KzAWRg
— MLB (@MLB) September 14, 2025
Few human beings will ever experience hitting a ball like that. It is perfection, Kurtz said — timing, launch angle, flight of the ball, a synchronized connection he hopes to make hundreds more times in green and gold.
“It’s the best feeling in the world,” Kurtz said. “It’s kind of why we all play the game, to chase that feeling.”
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Tyler Kepner is a Senior Writer for The Athletic covering MLB. He previously worked for The New York Times, covering the Mets (2000-2001) and Yankees (2002-2009) and serving as national baseball columnist from 2010 to 2023. A Vanderbilt University graduate, he has covered the Angels for the Riverside (Calif.) Press-Enterprise and Mariners for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, and began his career with a homemade baseball magazine in his native Philadelphia in the early 1990s. Tyler is the author of the best-selling “K: A History of Baseball In Ten Pitches” (2019) and “The Grandest Stage: A History of The World Series” (2022). Follow Tyler on Twitter @ TylerKepner