article_id: nyt_90
url: https://www.nytimes.com/athletic/7039856/2026/02/11/caleb-durbin-red-sox-spring-training-mlb/
title: Meet newest Red Sox infielder Caleb Durbin: How he fits and his connection to Dustin Pedroia
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
At 5-foot-7, Caleb Durbin is similar in stature to former Red Sox great Dustin Pedroia. The Red Sox hope Durbin can bring similar stability to the infield. Maddie Malhotra / Boston Red Sox / Getty Images
FORT MYERS, Fla. — After multiple iterations of their offseason plans from Pete Alonso to Alex Bregman to Isaac Paredes fell through, the Boston Red Sox turned to trading for infielder Caleb Durbin this week.
He’s a player who will remind many in Boston, at least because of his 5-foot-7 stature, of Dustin Pedroia.
The Red Sox aren’t expecting Durbin to have the same impact right away as the 2008 MVP and World Series-winning second baseman, but they hope his defense will stabilize the infield and that his pull-side swing will benefit from Fenway Park’s left-field wall.
“I don’t see Caleb becoming like he’s gonna hit 40 home runs, but he’s a guy that he’s gonna drive in runs, he’s gonna get on base, he’s gonna be part of the solution, right?” manager Alex Cora said. “Just talking to him today, it’s refreshing to hear him. You know what he wants to accomplish? The conversation (revolved around) defense and base running.”
Durbin, a right-handed hitter who balances out the lineup, could hit in the six-hole after lefty hitter Wilyer Abreu, Cora said. Last season, Durbin hit .256 with a .721 OPS, 11 homers and 25 doubles over 136 games with the Milwaukee Brewers. He stole 18 bases and showed strong plate discipline with a 9.9 percent strikeout rate, well below the 22 percent league average. It marked a successful rookie season as he finished third in National League Rookie of the Year voting.
“I think I was pleased with my bat-to-ball stills, strikeouts and stuff, I was able to play at this level, and I know it’s just continuing to push the envelope of batted balls, exit velo, bat speed,” Durbin said. “That stuff for me is kind of low-hanging fruit that I could get a lot better at.”
The Red Sox have not yet announced where Durbin will play, but he’ll see time at second and third base in camp, alongside Marcelo Mayer, as the club determines the best fit for each. At least one person with the club cited a preference for Mayer to play third base, which would slot Durbin, who had offseason arthroscopic elbow surgery, in at second. That thinking, however, may have shifted.
A second baseman for most of his minor league career, Durbin initially struggled at third base during the start of his rookie season with Milwaukee. But after dedicated work with infielders coach Matt Erickson, where he worked at keeping his hands loose, he improved throughout the year and finished the year with 2 Outs Above Average at the position. He’s ready to play wherever needed in Boston.
“I know they want to have more conversations in depth, kind of getting everyone on the same page as far as comfortability at each slot,” Durbin said. “Whatever positions the team in the best spot, whatever helps the team the most, I feel good everywhere.”
Whether it’s Mayer or Durbin at second, the Red Sox hope to find stability at the position. Since Pedroia’s last game in 2019, the club has used a whopping 33 players at second base.
Durbin and Mayer are not unfamiliar with each other. Durbin, who turns 26 this month, is a former New York Yankees prospect who was traded to Milwaukee for closer Devin Williams in 2024. He spent plenty of time playing Red Sox prospects, including Mayer, and came up through the Yankees farm system with catcher Carlos Narvaez, another former Yankees prospect.
“I’ve always said I hope I get a chance to play a lot of games at Fenway because playing at Greenville and Portland (as a visiting player) in the minor leagues, they still have the Green Monsters in the minor league parks,” he said. “I played a lot there and had some success (with the wall). So definitely looking forward to it.”
Durbin was always the smallest player on any team he’s played for, and he grew up idolizing Pedroia. He heard plenty of stories from Milwaukee manager Pat Murphy, who coached Pedroia at Arizona State, but didn’t get a chance to meet Pedroia through him last season. He’s hoping that this spring he’ll get a chance, as Cora has invited Pedroia to camp in recent years to meet players informally.
“He was definitely one of my favorite players growing up,” Durbin said. “And a guy that I definitely try to model my game around. Obviously, I’ve got a long way to go, but he was a dude I really enjoyed watching.”
• Andruw Monasterio, one of three players acquired in the Durbin trade, played 15 games at first base last season for the Brewers. Though he’s spent most of his career at third, he said he’s played all over the infield. With a spot on the 40-man roster, he’s likely to see major-league playing time this year, if not on Opening Day. His experience at first base is notable, given Triston Casas isn’t expected back until at least May, and Romy Gonzalez, who played 58 games at first last season, has been slowed early in camp with shoulder inflammation. Monasterio, given his versatility and .755 OPS in 68 games last season, could serve as back-up first baseman for Willson Contreras if Gonzalez faces any further setbacks.
• Garrett Crochet and Payton Tolle threw their first live batting practice sessions Wednesday and, as is the case with most pitchers facing batters for the first time in a season, were a bit rusty with location. Crochet didn’t get to work much on his new splitter.
“Garrett was saying he was off location-wise, wasn’t able to work on other stuff because he was behind in the count,” Cora said. “But it’s just checking boxes right now, stay healthy and be ready for Opening Day.”
Crochet live BP is underway, pitch metrics on the video board in the background pic.twitter.com/gt7c3ccbM0
— Jen McCaffrey (@jcmccaffrey) February 11, 2026
• Cora hinted that Roman Anthony, who led off 27 games last season, might be penciled into the top spot this year, too.
“Putting pressure on the opposition from pitch one, that matters,” Cora said. “… He was amazing for us leading off. That means that he’s going to get the most at-bats of anybody, and he’s that type of hitter, so we’re talking top of the lineup. I’m not saying he’s going to lead off, but I like what George (Springer) did for Houston in ‘17. I like what Mookie (Betts) did for us in ’18, and I like what Roman did for us last year.”
• Speaking about the bullpen, Cora noted that newcomer Jake Bennett, acquired from the Washington Nationals in a trade for Luis Perales this winter, could be a lefty option out of the bullpen. He also highlighted Tyler Samaniego, a pitcher acquired from the Pittsburgh Pirates alongside Johan Oviedo in December. Lefty Jovani Moran, who’s out of options, has seemingly already locked down one lefty spot (outside of closer Aroldis Chapman), but the Red Sox are determining if they need or want another lefty in the mix. Keep an eye on Bennett and Samaniego. Cora also noted that rehabbing starters Patrick Sandoval and Kutter Crawford are progressing well. Both are scheduled for live BPs on Friday. Both are in the mix for the fifth starter spot, but Cora suggested either is also an option for a long-man role out of the bullpen.
Spot the pattern. Connect the terms
Find the hidden link between sports terms
Jen McCaffrey is a staff writer for The Athletic covering the Boston Red Sox. Prior to joining The Athletic, the Syracuse graduate spent four years as a Red Sox reporter for MassLive.com and three years as a sports reporter for the Cape Cod Times. Follow Jen on Twitter @ jcmccaffrey