article_id: nyt_92
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/nicholas-confessore
title: Nicholas Confessore
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I mostly cover American politics and government. I’ve also written about the tech industry, cable news, and tax evasion by the ultrawealthy. I usually report articles over the course of weeks and months, interviewing dozens or hundreds of people while seeking and analyzing documents and records. I’m also a contributor to MSNBC, where I provide on-air news analysis.
I grew up in New York City, and I’ve worked as a reporter since college. I joined The Times in 2004. I’ve covered New York City mayoral races, the state capital, and two presidential campaigns, working for Metro, Politics and the Washington bureau. I joined the Investigations department and the Magazine in 2016. I was part of a team of reporters whose coverage of the downfall of Gov. Eliot Spitzer of New York won the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for breaking news reporting. In 2019, my Times colleagues and I were Pulitzer finalists for our investigation of Facebook and other social media companies.
Before joining The Times, I was an editor at The Washington Monthly and a contributor to The Atlantic Monthly and Rolling Stone, among other publications. I started my career as a staff writer at The American Prospect.
I like good stories. If you have one, email me (see below).
I practice independent journalism in keeping with the standards outlined by our Ethical Journalism Handbook . My highest professional obligation is to report the facts, wherever they lead. I choose to not be a member of any political party, and I don’t participate in political campaigns. I do not accept gifts and The Times pays for any costs related to my work. When reporting, I strive to be open-minded and fair. I believe people and events are complex. I keep in mind what I don’t know, and cultivate humility about what I think I do know. I try to seek a range of perspectives, and to engage with the subjects of my stories so that they have a fair and robust chance to comment before publication.
Email: nicholas.confessore@nytimes.com
LinkedIn: Nicholas Confessore
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
The former Prince Andrew was arrested in Britain on suspicion of misconduct in public office.
By Rachel Abrams, Michael D. Shear, Nicholas Confessore, Michael Simon Johnson, Alex Stern, Shannon M. Lin, Devon Taylor, Liz O. Baylen, Elisheba Ittoop, Dan Powell and Chris Wood
The materials released by the Justice Department revealed that leading business and political figures had enduring relationships with the disgraced financier.
By Michael Barbaro, Matthew Goldstein, Debra Kamin, Nicholas Confessore, Mary Wilson, Michael Simon Johnson, Shannon M. Lin, Brendan Klinkenberg, Rachel Quester, Chelsea Daniel, Dan Powell and Chris Wood
The photos, which showed young women or possibly teenagers with their faces visible, were largely removed after The New York Times began notifying the Justice Department.
By Mike Baker and Julie Tate
The New York Times found more than 5,300 files with references to Mr. Trump and related terms. They include salacious and unverified claims, as well as documents that had already been made public.
By Steve Eder, Michael C. Bender and David Enrich
Materials released by the Justice Department revealed that leading business and political figures had enduring relationships with the disgraced financier.
By Nicholas Confessore
Todd Blanche, the deputy attorney general, told reporters on Friday that “there’s a hunger or a thirst for information that I do not think will be satisfied by the review of these documents.”
By Devlin Barrett, Michael Gold and Mike Baker
This summer, federal investigators assembled a summary of accusations against Mr. Trump that had come in through the agency’s public tip line. The Times has not corroborated the allegations.
By Nicholas Confessore
The Justice Department came under scrutiny for its handling of the documents and deletions online of some material. It said it would not remove mentions of Donald Trump from the files as they are released.
By Alan Feuer and Devlin Barrett
The focus on a former president comes at a moment when Republicans have fought to shift public attention away from Mr. Epstein’s friendship with President Trump.
By Nicholas Confessore, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and Katie Benner
The president has tried to minimize their friendship, but documents and interviews reveal an intense and complicated relationship. Chasing women was a game of ego and dominance. Female bodies were currency.
By Nicholas Confessore and Julie Tate