article_id: nyt_93
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/genevieve-glatsky?page=3
title: Genevieve Glatsky
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I cover Colombia, Venezuela, Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana and Suriname. My recent work has focused on the effects of U.S. foreign policy, the erosion of democratic norms and the impact of drug trafficking in the region, along with cultural stories on music, food and influencers.
Based in Bogotá since 2019, I began my career writing about gender and environmental issues in Colombia as a freelance journalist, contributing to publications including The Guardian, Foreign Policy, and Al Jazeera. I started freelancing for The Times’s Andes Bureau in 2022, covering Colombia’s historic election of its first leftist president, and joined the paper full time later that year. My work has since covered political turmoil in Venezuela, Colombia’s evolving drug trade and Ecuador’s escalating security crisis.
Before moving to Colombia, I worked in Southeast Asia and the Caribbean and interned at The Philadelphia Inquirer and Politico. A Philadelphia native, I studied international relations at the University of Pennsylvania and I speak Spanish, French and Portuguese.
I am committed to accuracy and thorough reporting, in line with the standards of integrity outlined in The Times’ Ethical Journalism Handbook . That means maintaining objectivity while ensuring fair and empathetic coverage through careful attention to sourcing and fact-checking. I strive to report on government policy impartially, regardless of party or ideology. When covering sensitive topics — such as human rights abuses or personal tragedy — I balance sensitivity with rigorous verification, aiming to give voice to those affected while informing the public accurately.
Email: genevieve@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
The Cuban government’s account of a supposed armed raid into its territory was called into question after one of the men identified as being on the boat turned up in Miami.
By Frances Robles and Patricia Mazzei
The bill may bring the release of hundreds of political prisoners. But many critics say the legislation, passed after major pressure from the Trump administration, raises concerns.
By Max Bearak, Annie Correal, Patricia Sulbarán, Isayen Herrera and Genevieve Glatsky
Peru’s Congress voted to impeach President José Jerí, four months after he replaced Dina Boluarte, who had also been removed from the presidency.
By Genevieve Glatsky and Mitra Taj
Nicolás Maduro’s capture and talk of oil investment have pushed prices higher, even as brokers say enthusiasm is outpacing demand in a weak economy.
By Genevieve Glatsky, Maria Ramírez and Nayrobis Rodríguez
Hours after at least 35 political prisoners were released, one of the most prominent was apparently back in custody, raising doubts about the government’s direction and control.
Edmundo González, seen by many as the real winner of Venezuela’s 2024 election, said his son-in-law was released after more than a year in detention.
President Gustavo Petro of Colombia is taking a harder line against the National Liberation Army, or ELN, a leftist group experts call a powerful drug trafficker in Colombia and Venezuela.
By Annie Correal, Genevieve Glatsky and Max Bearak
Diosdado Cabello, Venezuela’s interior minister, is accused by U.S. prosecutors of drug trafficking and is linked to repression at home, yet remains a powerful figure.
The president met with executives on a day when the U.S. seized another tanker carrying Venezuelan oil.
By Rebecca F. Elliott, Emiliano Rodríguez Mega, Eric Schmitt and Michael Levenson
As Venezuela’s interim authorities began to release political prisoners, some of their families raced to the notorious prison that symbolized Nicolás Maduro’s authoritarian rule.
By Patricia Sulbarán and James Wagner
President Gustavo Petro said that the new tone between the leaders was “friendly,” but he also resurfaced his deep disagreements with President Trump.
By Annie Correal and Max Bearak
The interim government released some prisoners under pressure from the Trump administration, even as it continued arrests and crackdowns elsewhere.
By Jack Nicas, Emma Bubola, Emiliano Rodríguez Mega and Genevieve Glatsky
The conversation appeared to defuse a crisis that erupted after President Trump said military action against Colombia “sounds good.” President Gustavo Petro spoke to The New York Times just before the call.
By Annie Correal, Max Bearak and Genevieve Glatsky
El presidente colombiano pidió a su pueblo que lo defienda “de cualquier acto violento ilegítimo”. Su ministro de Defensa subrayó que continuaba la cooperación en seguridad con Washington.
President Gustavo Petro said that he had asked the Colombian people to defend him “against any illegitimate violent act.” His defense minister emphasized that security cooperation with Washington continued.
Delcy Rodríguez is the torchbearer of a government whose revolutionary roots are in disarray. She must appease constituencies who loathe U.S. meddling while fielding Washington’s demands.
By Simon Romero, Isayen Herrera and María Victoria Fermín
Experts have said that Venezuela is not a major drug producer but a minor cocaine transit country, with most of the cocaine flowing through it headed to Europe.
By Genevieve Glatsky and Annie Correal
Operating largely from the shadows, Ms. Flores, the first lady of Venezuela, helped consolidate Mr. Maduro’s rule while controlling the judiciary and amassing wealth through corruption, experts say.
This was featured in live coverage.
By Julie Turkewitz and Genevieve Glatsky
Several Latin American leaders responded with anger, while European leaders were more cautious. President Trump’s audacious raid drew support, too.
The Trump administration had for months increased pressure on the Maduro government. In January, U.S. forces captured the Venezuelan president.
By Isabela Espadas Barros Leal and Genevieve Glatsky
Vice President Delcy Rodríguez, next in the line of succession, and other top Venezuelan officials issued defiant pronouncements after Mr. Maduro’s capture.
By Simon Romero and Anatoly Kurmanaev
This was featured in live coverage.
By Anatoly Kurmanaev and Tyler Pager
The number of American citizens held in Venezuela has grown since the start of the U.S. military and economic campaign against President Nicolás Maduro.
By Anatoly Kurmanaev, Annie Correal and Edward Wong
The drone attack, said to be on a dock where drugs were being prepared for loading on boats, represented a further escalation of the Trump administration’s campaign against Nicolás Maduro.
The U.S. military tried to intercept the Bella 1 last week in the Caribbean Sea as it headed to Venezuela to pick up oil.
By Eric Schmitt, Nicholas Nehamas and Tyler Pager
The attack last week, on a dock purportedly used for shipping narcotics, did not kill anyone, people briefed on the operation said. But it was the first known U.S. operation inside Venezuela.
By Julian E. Barnes and Tyler Pager
President Gustavo Petro is locked in a war of words with President Trump over Colombia’s major role in the global drug trade. The issue is complicated.
Ryan Wedding rose to fame as a Canadian Olympic athlete, but the authorities say he became one of the world’s biggest drug lords, who ordered an informant executed.
By Norimitsu Onishi and Vjosa Isai
Homeland Security Secretary Kristi Noem said the ship seizures were meant to force Venezuela’s president Nicolás Maduro from power.