article_id: nyt_94
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/david-pierson?page=4
title: David Pierson
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I write about China’s foreign policy and its engagement with the rest of the world. I’m interested in charting how China’s growing influence is shaping global affairs and forcing established powers like the United States to adapt.
I have been a professional journalist since 1998. Before joining The Times in 2022, I worked for more than two decades at The Los Angeles Times, partly as a foreign correspondent based in Beijing covering China, and later as a Southeast Asia correspondent based in Singapore. I now live and work in Hong Kong, the city I was born and raised in before I left for the United States as a teenager. My work has been recognized by the Society of Professional Journalists, the National Press Club and the Gerald Loeb Awards, among others. I am a graduate of St. John’s University in Queens, New York, where I studied journalism.
As a Times journalist, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook . Being fair and accurate is a priority for me. I protect my sources and I do not accept gifts, money or favors from anyone who might figure into my reporting. I make every attempt to give all sides a say.
Email: david.pierson@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
Beijing has condemned the U.S.-backed strikes on Iran, a close partner. Yet with trade talks looming, it is unlikely to risk a rupture with Washington.
An interview with Sebastien Lai, whose father, Jimmy Lai, was arrested over his participation in the 2019 protests in Hong Kong.
Amid trade disputes with President Trump, leaders of major U.S. allies have been visiting China. Our foreign correspondent David Pierson describes what’s going on.
By David Pierson, Leila Medina, Shawn Paik and James Surdam
China’s play for U.S. allies has a problem: As Germany’s leader showed, Europe’s grievances with Beijing may run deeper than its frustration with Trump.
Chancellor Friedrich Merz laid out his complaints in a frank message to his hosts on a trip to Beijing that China had designed to showcase their relationship.
By David Pierson and Jim Tankersley
Chancellor Friedrich Merz’s trip will test his ability to address tensions between the countries, at a time of strain between Europe and Washington.
By Jim Tankersley and David Pierson
In her first interview about her father, the exiled Hong Kong activist Anna Kwok said the authorities were targeting her family to try to silence her.
The sentence for the media mogul, along with long prison terms for his editors, shows how Hong Kong enforces Xi Jinping’s red lines with a new severity.
Two editors and an opinion writer from Jimmy Lai’s now-shuttered newspaper were each sentenced to 10 years in prison, a significant escalation in media prosecution in the once freewheeling city.
This was featured in live coverage.
This was featured in live coverage.
By David Pierson and Francesca Regalado
As Washington unsettles its partners, Beijing is reaping diplomatic gains, without backing down on human rights, trade or security.
By David Pierson and Berry Wang
Prime Minister Keir Starmer of Britain is seeking to promote economic ties for growth, offering China’s leader, Xi Jinping, a way to court one of America’s allies.
Prime Minister Keir Starmer hopes to boost his country’s lagging economy with a trip to Beijing. But he must carefully navigate between two superpowers.
By Michael D. Shear and David Pierson
The U.S. assault on Venezuela points to a world where big powers seek to call the shots in their regions, an idea Beijing knows well.
The vote in Myanmar, widely seen as a sham, is a bid for legitimacy by the military government. It is also a way for Beijing to exert its influence there.
By Sui-Lee Wee and David Pierson
Jimmy Lai spent decades criticizing China’s rulers. He faces up to life in prison after a court found him guilty of national security crimes.
By Andrew Higgins and Alexandra Stevenson
Jimmy Lai, the Hong Kong publisher and democracy campaigner, was convicted of national security charges in a city where even minor dissent is now whispered.
By Alexandra Stevenson and David Pierson
This was featured in live coverage.
Jimmy Lai, the publisher of a popular tabloid, has spent years fighting the landmark national security case brought over his support of the city’s now vanquished pro-democracy movement.
The arrest was part of a crackdown on speech that the authorities say is inciting hatred of the government. Critics say officials are silencing calls for accountability.
The government is pushing hard to raise turnout in an election overshadowed by a deadly fire and public anger over safety lapses and official accountability.
The authorities quickly arrested critics demanding accountability, signaling an expansive use of the security law to silence dissent over nonpolitical tragedies.
By David Pierson and Alexandra Stevenson
A diplomatic row with Japan over Taiwan has China turning to Britain and France for support, appealing to their shared history as wartime allies.
Hope of finding survivors has dwindled, with many residents of the Wang Fuk Court towers still unaccounted for. Eight more people were arrested Friday over the blaze.
By David Pierson and Anjali Tsui
The shake-up in China’s armed forces comes as both Beijing and Washington are pushing through major changes in their country’s militaries, in different ways.
The country’s new president rolled out the red carpet for China’s leader, Xi Jinping, and President Trump this week, but the superpower rivalry is making it harder to balance relations.
At an Asia-Pacific summit, the Chinese leader urged countries to “resist unilateral bullying,” an appeal that seemed at odds with his country’s recent actions.
By David Pierson and Berry Wang
President Trump and China’s leader Xi Jinping just had a highly anticipated meeting in South Korea. David Pierson, a New York Times foreign correspondent covering China, breaks down what they accomplished and how they de-escalated a major trade war.
By David Pierson, Christina Thornell, Nikolay Nikolov and Chang W. Lee
The two leaders reached an agreement on fentanyl, some tariffs and rare earths, at least for a year. But even as the global trade picture cleared a little, Mr. Trump spurred new worries about nuclear proliferation.
By Katie Rogers and Erica L. Green
Plus, goodbye to “milk chocolate”?
By Tracy Mumford, Will Jarvis, Ian Stewart and David Pierson
By withholding soybean purchases and rare-earth exports, China extracted relief from U.S. tariffs and delayed export controls, without conceding much in return.
By Lily Kuo and David Pierson
From Kuala Lumpur to Gyeongju, President Trump is casting himself as a deal-maker and peace negotiator, while a wary region looks for tariff relief and steadier ties.
By Sui-Lee Wee, Choe Sang-Hun, Javier C. Hernández and David Pierson
President Trump’s visit shows how the United States and China are vying for influence in Asia over trade, technology and the fate of Taiwan.
In weaponizing its dominance over the crucial minerals, Beijing is using tactics that it once denounced, potentially alienating nations it wants to court.
By Lily Kuo and David Pierson
The Boeing 747-400, arriving from Dubai, skidded off the runway after landing and fell into the sea, Hong Kong officials said.
By Yan Zhuang and David Pierson
Xi Jinping’s need to project strength before a crucial meeting of Communist Party leaders may help explain why Beijing announced new rare earth controls.
Beijing’s climate and trade pledges at the U.N. highlighted how modest moves can stand out when the United States is pulling back from global leadership.
Li Qiang, China’s second-highest-ranking official, portrayed Beijing as stable leader at a time when President Trump is pulling back from international institutions.
By David Pierson and Meaghan Tobin
A new visa for science and engineering graduates is part of China’s effort to establish itself as the world leader in science and technology.