article_id: nyt_97
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/ruth-graham?page=4
title: Ruth Graham
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I write about faith in America, as major shifts like the decline of organized religion intersect with the persistence of spirituality and the rise of a new political Christianity. I’m as interested in spontaneous revivals and personal conversion stories as I am in denominational meetings. (OK, probably more.)
I’ve covered religion and faith for over a decade. My reporting has found me tagging along on a pre-dawn workout in Texas devoted to Christian male bonding, a prayer service in small-town Georgia devoted to a Bible miraculously oozing oil, and an outdoor cremation ceremony in the Rocky Mountains. Before I joined The Times in 2020, I was a writer at Slate. I was born and raised in Illinois, where I attended Wheaton College, an evangelical institution, and I now live in Dallas with my family.
I share the values and adhere to the high standards of integrity outlined in The Times’s Ethical Journalism handbook . For me, that means ensuring my coverage reflects the voices and complex perspectives of people of faith, reporting “without fear or favor” to tell stories that are fair and accurate.
Email: ruth.graham@nytimes.com
X: @publicroad (DMs open)
WhatsApp: Email, write to NYT tips, or DM to get my number
Signal: Email, write to NYT tips, or DM to get my number
LinkedIn: Ruth Graham
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
James Talarico is talking up his beliefs and his status as a seminary student. Jasmine Crockett, his opponent, is the daughter of a pastor and is steeped in the Black church.
Some religious groups have sued for access, others have been denied entrance to detention facilities.
An inquiry into scams involving money slated for social services has deepened over the years. It also is at the center of several recent domestic decisions by the Trump administration.
By Christina Morales and Ernesto Londoño
The camp has been the foundation of an invisible network of status and power in Texas. Now, following the flood, that social web is beginning to fray.
Separately, a lawsuit filed Monday asserted that Texas officials shared blame in the flood disaster that killed 27 girls last summer.
The move involving Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen, who hosted a popular midcentury radio and TV show and died in 1979, ends a six-year delay.
Nick Shirley had struggled to expand his reach. With a new approach after a missionary trip, he caused a sensation with a video about possible fraud.
This was featured in live coverage.
This was featured in live coverage.
By Ruth Graham and Mary Beth Gahan
The president has given a new class of evangelists direct access to the White House. In return, many support him without question.
By Ruth Graham and Vincent Alban
Citing recent events in Venezuela, Ukraine and Greenland, three cardinals said their statement was inspired by Pope Leo.
He said he would retire from writing and public speaking.
From St. Patrick’s Cathedral to the White House to Fox News, he comfortably inhabited many spheres of influence.
By Elizabeth Dias, Maya King and Ruth Graham
Two decisions by the Texas governor this week, including directing authorities to investigate an Islamic organization, come as the state sees an increase in anti-Muslim rhetoric.
“In the whole history of the Orthodox Church in America, this has never been seen,” a priest said about the surge of young men drawn to the demanding practice of Christianity.
We asked our journalists who write about religion nationwide about how they navigate debates about what Christianity is and isn’t.
By Patrick Healy, Elizabeth Dias and Ruth Graham
Parents of campers and counselors who died in the July 4 Texas floods said the camp leadership did little before mounting “a hopeless ‘rescue’ effort from its self-created disaster.”
The Roman Catholic prelates cited detainees’ lack of access to religious sacraments like communion.
By Ruth Graham and John Ismay
Pope Francis greatly limited the use of the traditional Latin Mass, believing it sowed division. Traditionalist Catholics are hoping Pope Leo charts a different path.
By Elisabetta Povoledo and Ruth Graham
Another leader in the breakaway denomination has been accused of responding slowly to accusations of abuse and grooming against a lay leader.
The church, which has more than 17 million members around the world, had been officially without a leader since Russell M. Nelson died.
Dallin H. Oaks, 93, the next president of the global body, addressed the conference a week after an attack on a church in Michigan.
One detainee was killed and two others were wounded after a gunman opened fire on Wednesday. The gunman died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound.
The shooter, who killed himself, also wounded two detainees in an attack that raised new fears about political violence in the United States.
By J. David Goodman, Hamed Aleaziz and Michael Levenson
On social media accounts, the suspect, Joshua Jahn, talked about video games, cars, “South Park” and marijuana — but not so much about politics.
By Hamed Aleaziz, Ruth Graham and Mary Beth Gahan
The building that was targeted by a gunman is part office building and part processing center for immigrant detainees.
Twenty-seven children and counselors died in the Texas Hill Country camp, and many of their families expressed shock that the retreat on the Guadalupe River would be open for its 100th anniversary.
“I never would have imagined the splinters inside of the Jewish community,” said Rabbi Elan Babchuck, whose work includes research on polarization.
Since his death, the parents and grandparents of his original followers are discovering his work. They like what they see.
Calling Charlie Kirk a martyr, conservatives see an opportunity to supercharge the movement the right-wing leader began and to cement conservative Christian values in American life.
This was featured in live coverage.
By Ruth Graham and Lauren Jackson
“Charlie died for what he believed in,” said Jackson Lahmeyer, a pastor in Oklahoma.
By Elizabeth Dias and Ruth Graham
The families of “Heaven’s 27,” the children and counselors lost at Camp Mystic, pressed the Legislature to toughen flood rules over the objections of some Hill Country camp operators.
Annunciation Catholic Church and School has been a neighborhood anchor in Minneapolis for more than a century.
By Mitch Smith, Ruth Graham, Ann Hinga Klein and Dan Simmons
The former college swimmer has used her race against Lia Thomas, a trans athlete, to propel her career as an influential, and unsparing, activist.
“Music & the Spoken Word” has been on the air since 1929. Much has changed, yet much has remained exactly the same.
By Ruth Graham and Lindsay D’Addato
Periods of religious zealotry and an unsettled professional career were intertwined for years before he was accused of murder.
By Dan Barry, Ernesto Londoño and Ruth Graham
The children who lost their lives at Camp Mystic were not scattered through the camp. Almost every one of them was in either the Bubble Inn or Twins cabins, which housed the youngest campers.
By Soumya Karlamangla, Ruth Graham, Emily Cochrane and McKenna Oxenden
He was a theologically uncompromising pastor in Southern California who influenced generations of evangelical preachers.
For decades, Dick and Tweety Eastland presided over Camp Mystic with a kind of magisterial benevolence that alumni well past childhood still describe with awe.