article_id: nyt_98
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/bethlehem-feleke
title: Bethlehem Feleke
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I specialize in on-the-ground video coverage of major news events in the U.S. and around the world. My work focuses on the human impact of politics, climate change, migration and more. I’m particularly interested in the ways public policy shapes people and the communities they live in.
I’ve reported on breaking news in a range of formats since 2017. Most recently, I worked as a field producer based in Nairobi, Kenya, covering news and features across Africa. I’ve worked on a variety of stories, from contested elections in West Africa, to the impacts of climate change in East Africa, to armed conflicts around the world including the wars in Ukraine and Gaza.
I graduated with a degree in international affairs from the University of Colorado at Boulder. I also have a master’s in international journalism from City University of London.
As a Times journalist, I share the values and adhere to the standards of integrity outlined in our Ethical Journalism Handbook . I always aim to make sure my work is accurate and fair, speaking to as many people as I can and keeping an open mind. When I’m on a story, I identify myself as a reporter for The Times.
Email: bethlehem.feleke@nytimes.com
WhatsApp / Signal: Email for my number
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
Health care providers across Minnesota have reported federal immigration agents present in and around medical centers. As arrests continue across the state, expecting mothers are afraid to go to their appointments — and reconsidering their birth plans.
By Bethlehem Feleke, Ben Garvin and Ben Laffin
After a Minneapolis woman was arrested by ICE agents, the children she left behind face an uncertain future. In the days following their mother’s detainment, the oldest daughter spoke to The New York Times.
By Ang Li, Bethlehem Feleke, Ben Garvin and Caroline Kim
After determining that a man they had detained was not the killer, Rhode Island officials have searched for more evidence and released photos of a possible gunman.
By Mark Arsenault and Mitch Smith
In Minnesota, Somali Americans have been in fear since President Trump called them “garbage.” ICE raids across the state have led to over a dozen arrests, prompting many to carry their U.S. passports to protect against wrongful arrests.
By Bethlehem Feleke, Jeremy Raff and Mark Boyer
The Trump administration has cut nearly a billion dollars in food aid, creating a scarcity crisis at food banks across the country. We traveled to Georgia to observe how a decades-old emergency food system supported by the U.S.D.A. is being eroded by government spending cuts.
By Bethlehem Feleke, Jeremy Raff, Ben Laffin and Jon Hazell
Four people were arrested after a protest at an Israeli Philharmonic Orchestra Concert in Paris on Thursday. Audience members shouted and set off flares during the show, according to French officials.
Days after a powerful hurricane made landfall in Jamaica, thousands of residents are now homeless and trying to make sense of how they narrowly survived. The New York Times traveled to the storm’s center in Black River, and found a community destroyed — without food or clean water — where families are desperate and still traumatized after being cut off from the outside world.
By Brent McDonald, Singeli Agnew, Ben Laffin and Bethlehem Feleke