article_id: nyt_99
url: https://www.nytimes.com/by/ruth-maclean
title: Ruth Maclean
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
I cover 25 countries, traveling out from my base in Senegal to report on daily life, family, culture, politics, work, migration, conflicts and people’s struggles to get by. It’s an enormous, diverse, dynamic region so I’m pulled in many directions and I am constantly learning. Nigeria, as Africa’s most populous nation and the region’s economic and cultural powerhouse, is a big focus.
I’ve been living and working in West Africa since 2016, and have spent a lot of that time on the road, reporting from Nigeria, the countries in the Sahel region, Congo and elsewhere.
I’m British, and I grew up in five countries in East and Southern Africa, before studying history at York University and broadcast journalism at City University, London. As a reporter, I’ve lived in Mexico, the U.K., and South Africa. I worked for the Guardian and The Times of London, before moving to The New York Times in 2019. I speak French and I’m learning Wolof and German. I once spoke Spanish and Kiswahili and hopefully one day I’ll get them back.
I’m a big fan of Senegalese style, Congolese music, and Nigerian everything. And the food in the whole region! If I could, I’d start every day with chapatis in eastern Congo for breakfast, have Senegalese ceebu jen for lunch, and fisherman’s soup in the Niger Delta for dinner.
I’m committed to The Times’s ethical journalism standards , and to being fair and open in my reporting. I never accept or offer bribes in any guise. I’m also committed to increasing and improving our coverage of Africa, a region often ignored by media organizations.
Email me story tips, feedback and Yorùbá proverbs.
Email: ruth.maclean@nytimes.com
Anonymous tips: nytimes.com/tips
The country has one of the most feared armed forces in Africa, yet within its own borders, it has repeatedly failed to stop abductions and attacks.
By Saikou Jammeh, Ruth Maclean, Dickson Adama and Ismail Auwal
Plus, the Super Bowl ad that prompted a backlash.
By Tracy Mumford, Will Jarvis, Ian Stewart and Ruth Maclean
The deployment follows months of escalating pressure from President Trump on the African nation, including a surprise missile strike on Christmas Day.
By Ruth Maclean, Eric Schmitt and Ismail Alfa
A TV presenter and one of Senegal’s best-known musicians appeared in court on Monday in one of the country’s most high-profile anti-gay cases in years.
By Ruth Maclean, Saikou Jammeh and Babacar Fall
The raiders stormed a rural community in central Nigeria, killing dozens and setting homes on fire in one of the country’s worst recent attacks.
By Ruth Maclean, Ismail Auwal and Saikou Jammeh
A yearslong effort to convince Washington of religious persecution is shifting foreign policy toward the West African nation, with major consequences.
By Dionne Searcey, Zolan Kanno-Youngs, Ruth Maclean and Eric Schmitt
Spotty research from a Christian activist has been used by Republican lawmakers to justify U.S. intervention in the country.
Detty December means a month of “back to back to back” partying in Nigeria’s megacity, both for locals and visiting members of the diaspora. Bring your stamina, dancing shoes and wads of cash.
By Ruth Maclean and Taiwo Aina
President Trump said the targets of airstrikes in Nigeria were Islamic State terrorists responsible for killing Christians, but experts question his framing.
By Ruth Maclean, Saikou Jammeh, Ismail Auwal and Eric Schmitt
Detty December means a month of “back to back to back” partying in Nigeria’s megacity. Ruth Maclean, the West Africa bureau chief for The New York Times, attends for the first time.
By Ruth Maclean, Taiwo Aina, Karen Hanley and Christina Thornell