article_id: ap_101
url: https://apnews.com/article/kaiser-permanente-strike-california-united-nurses-1726260636f3a6bc5f6efbf830f353e2
title: More than 30,000 Kaiser Permanente health care workers to end strike in California and Hawaii
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
LOS ANGELES (AP) — An estimated 31,000 registered nurses and other front-line Kaiser Permanente health care workers will return to work on Tuesday after a four-week strike in California and Hawaii to demand better wages and staffing.
The United Nurses Associations of California/Union of Health Care Professionals said in a statement Monday that “significant movement at the bargaining table” prompted an end to the walkout. The statement didn’t offer more specifics.
“According to the union, returning members to their patients and their livelihoods is the clearest path to securing a final agreement and building on the progress achieved during the strike,” the statement said.
Kathleen Campini Chambers, a spokesperson for Kaiser, said the two sides had come to an agreement on wage increases based on an offer the company first made in October.
“We are working with our teams to schedule returning employees over the coming days, in an orderly way that protects patient safety and minimizes any disruption,” she said in a statement.
The picketing that began Jan. 27 marked the second major strike in recent months by employees represented by the union. A five-day strike in October ended with negotiations resuming, but talks broke down in December.
Those on picket lines, including pharmacists, midwives and rehab therapists, said salaries have not kept pace with inflation and there is not enough staffing to keep up with patient demand.
They asked for a 25% wage increase over four years to make up for wages they say are at least 7% behind their peers.
Kaiser Permanente had countered with a 21.5% increase over four years. The company maintained that its union employees earn, on average, 16% more than their peers, and that it would have to charge customers more to meet strikers’ pay demands. Chambers said Monday that union leadership informed Kaiser they would accept the 21.5% offer.
Clinics and hospitals remained open during the strike, with some in-person appointments shifted to virtual, and some elective surgeries and procedures rescheduled.
Kaiser Permanente operates one of the nation’s largest not-for-profit health systems, serving 12.6 million members at 600 medical offices and 40 hospitals in largely western U.S. states. It is based in Oakland, California.
In New York City, nurses in the privately run NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital system approved a new contract Saturday, voting to end a major strike there after more than a month.
Two other big private hospital systems in New York, Montefiore and Mount Sinai, ended their nurses’ walkout earlier this month by inking contract agreements with the same union.