article_id: ap_117
url: https://apnews.com/article/argentina-teenagers-identifying-as-animals-therians-tiktok-54d158c4842f6515e31d83a260cdf31f
title: Viral phenomenon in Argentina has young people identifying themselves as animals
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
BUENOS AIRES (AP) — On a recent Sunday, a Buenos Aires plaza transformed into a makeshift wilderness for an unusual group of teenagers.
Sofía, wearing a lifelike beagle mask, ran across the grass on all fours. Nearby, 15-year-old Aguara leapt through the air, clearing an obstacle course while imitating the precise movements of a Belgian breed dog. Others dressed as cats and foxes perched in the branches of trees, keeping their distance from curious onlookers.
Youths climb a tree during a gathering of therians, people who say they identify as non-human animals, at a square in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. (AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd)
It was the latest gathering of “therians,” individuals who say they identify mentally, spiritually or psychologically with non-human animals. The trend has taken over Argentine social media over the past few months, gaining traction on platforms like TikTok , where the hashtag #therian has surpassed 2 million posts, with Argentina leading all other Latin American countries in engagement. The surge has drawn the attention of influencers and media outlets alike, sparking reactions that range from laughter and bewilderment to outright anger.
And as the movement gains traction, psychologists are stepping in to analyze the phenomenon and its place in public discourse.
Youths walk through a park during a gathering of therians, people who say they identify as non-human animals, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. (AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd)
Aguara, who claims to identify as a Belgian Malinois and counts her age as the equivalent of two years and two months in dog years, says she’s a lot like any other teenager.
“I wake up like a normal person and live my life like a normal person,” she said. “I simply have moments when I like being a dog.”
As the leader of what she calls her “pack,” Aguara — the name she identifies with — boasts more than 125,000 followers on TikTok and coordinates regular meetups around the Argentine capital.
A youth wears a dog mask during a gathering of therians, people who say they identify as non-human animals, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. (AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd)
Aru, a 16-year-old who wore a seal mask to the park meetup, said she considers herself part of the “otherpaw” branch of therians: individuals who wear masks and tails or move on all fours just for fun. “It’s not necessarily about identifying as an animal,” she said.
She reckons the therian trend took off in Argentina because of the country’s “fairly free” environment. For other young Argentines, the movement has provided a vital community where they can feel truly accepted.
Should parents be worried?
Débora Pedace, a psychologist and director of the Integral Therapeutic Center in Buenos Aires, acknowledged that the phenomenon generates a complex mix of confusion, laughter and even anger.
“From a psychological standpoint, this is a symbolic identification with an animal,” Pedace said. “It becomes pathological or alarming only when it turns into a deeply rooted belief and the person fully assumes the role of an animal, potentially leading to self-harm or hurting others.”
An animal mask sits on the floor during a gathering of therians, people who say they identify as non-human animals, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Sunday, Feb. 22, 2026. (AP Photo/Rodrigo Abd)
Follow AP’s coverage of Latin America and the Caribbean at https://apnews.com/hub/latin-america