article_id: ap_273
url: https://apnews.com/article/target-synthetic-dyes-cereal-0bffad1d7862b11d09a03556bcb0373a
title: Target will stop selling cereals with synthetic colors by end of May
date: 2026-03-06
author: 
matched_keywords: Lunar New Year
content:
Target will stop selling cereals containing synthetic colors by the end of May.
The Minneapolis-based discounter said Friday it had been phasing out synthetic colors in cereals for several years. Right now, 85% of its cereal sales already come from products made without synthetic dyes.
Target said it has worked with national brands and its private brands to reformulate products as needed. Some cereals — including Trix and Lucky Charms, which are made by General Mills — will have updated formulations, Target said. Target said it will no longer carry brands that don’t reformulate, but it didn’t name the brands.
General Mills announced last year that it planned to remove artificial dyes from all of its U.S. cereals by the summer of 2026. But WK Kellogg has said it plans to remove artificial dyes from its cereals by the end of 2027. Kellogg makes several cereals with artificial dyes that are now sold at Target, including Froot Loops, Apple Jacks and Squishmallows.
General Mills said Friday that 85% of its U.S. retail portfolio — including brands like Cheerios and Cascadian Farm — is already free of synthetic dyes, and it remains committed to removing all dyes by this summer. The company doesn’t anticipate that Target will halt sales of any of its products.
A message seeking comment was also left Friday with WK Kellogg.
Target’s move acknowledges that American consumers and the U.S. government are paying closer attention to what goes into packaged foods. Last January, days before former President Joe Biden left office, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration banned Red 3 , a petroleum-based dye.
A few months later, the FDA under President Donald Trump urged food makers to phase out petroleum-based artificial colors by the end of 2026. The agency is reviewing some other petroleum-based dyes, including Red No. 40, Yellow No. 5 and 6 and Blue No. 1.
Earlier this month, the FDA said it was relaxing rules that restrict when food companies can claim that their products have no artificial colors. The agency said food labels may claim to have “no artificial colors” when they are free of petroleum-based dyes even if they contain dyes derived from natural sources such as plants.
Target isn’t the first big retailer to nix artificial dyes. Whole Foods has never allowed products with artificial colors since its founding in 1980. Trader Joe’s also doesn’t use synthetic colors in its products.
Last year, Walmart said it planned to remove synthetic food dyes and 30 other ingredients, including some preservatives, artificial sweeteners and fat substitutes, from its store brands sold in the United States by January 2027.
Target noted that its private label Good & Gather brand, which it introduced in 2019, is made without artificial flavors and sweeteners, synthetic colors or high fructose corn syrup. The brand has more than 2,500 products across dairy, produce, ready made pastas meat as well as baby and toddler food.
“We know consumers are increasingly prioritizing healthier lifestyles, and we’re moving quickly to evolve our offerings to meet their needs,” said Cara Sylvester, Target’s executive vice president and chief merchandising officer, in a statement.
In recent months, other major food companies like Kraft Heinz , Nestle and Conagra Brands have pledged to eliminate petroleum-based synthetic dyes in coming years.