id: cnn_2022-01-27_17
date: 2022-01-27
title: How the Chinese zodiac was born - sponsorcontent.cnn.com
url: https://news.google.com/rss/articles/CBMic0FVX3lxTE5XemkxQnRPdlZ2M1hiLVlmRzRia0NkeTVZSGtsY2NWVHcxNXpaTWN2cHpabzk0LUFFeHhKTDZxcDZOOXJ6cGZldW1OcXZjXzQyTHJXSGEtQlpmM284REJkRlI3eGJRZkRnNnhCdjFxRjdUZmc?oc=5
content:
The Lunar New Year, which this year falls on February 1, marks the beginning of a new yearly cycle presided over by one of the 12 animals in the Chinese zodiac. In 2022, we usher in the Year of the Tiger. Here’s a look at how the Chinese zodiac came to be and the role it plays in Chinese culture.

The 12 Animals

The Chinese zodiac can be traced as far back as 3,000 years ago. According to legend, the zodiac was born as a result of “the Great Race”, a contest held by the Jade Emperor to create a calendar for humans. As supreme ruler of the Heavens, he decreed that the first 12 animals to finish the race would determine the order of the zodiac, sparking great excitement and fierce competition throughout the animal kingdom. The folk story depicts how the animals used their unique skills and strengths to cross the finish line in the following order: rat, ox, tiger, rabbit, dragon, snake, horse, sheep, monkey, rooster, dog, and pig.

Over the years, the zodiac has become a major part of the daily lives of Chinese people. Every person’s birth year corresponds with a particular zodiac sign, which is believed to shape their traits, personalities, and even fortune and compatibility with others. For example, those born in the Year of the Rat are thought to be quick-witted, intelligent, and adaptable. Meanwhile, those born in the Year of the Ox are said to be honest, hard-working, and dependable.

Year of the Tiger

This year’s presiding animal is the tiger, and those born between February 1, 2022, and January 21, 2023, will all belong to this zodiac sign.

In Chinese culture, the tiger symbolizes bravery and power and is known as the king of all beasts. People born during a tiger cycle are friendly, brave, competitive, charming, and endowed with good luck and authority. With indomitable fortitude and great confidence, they also make highly competent leaders.


New Year Outlook

Overall, the Year of the Tiger is expected to bring people power and the will to take on challenges and make an impact. It is set to be a year of significant change and great opportunities. To enjoy a great 12 months ahead, people are encouraged to be brave like tigers when facing challenges.

Chinese people also believe that the outlook for each year will differ depending on one’s zodiac sign. For example, those born in the Year of the Ox are expected to be the luckiest this year, as their sign exists in harmony with the tiger.

It is also believed that the year which corresponds with one’s Chinese zodiac sign – known as “Ben Ming Nian” – is supposed to spell bad fortune, which means that those born under the tiger sign might have a bumpy year ahead. It is believed that wearing red or jade can help counter bad luck.

Roaring Celebrations

The zodiac is an important part of Lunar New Year festivities. The presiding animal features prominently on decorations, appearing on everything from red lanterns and door couplets to paper cuttings, paintings, and more.

Chinese people will also integrate the zodiac into idioms and greetings exchanged during the New Year. For example, “Hu” means tiger and the phrase “Hu Nian Da Ji” can be used to wish someone luck in the Year of Tiger, and “Hu Hu Sheng Wei” can be used to wish someone the vigor and vitality of the king of beasts.

Even though the zodiac has traditionally been an integral part of Chinese culture, China’s younger generation has changed their views towards traditional customs and practices. Today, the zodiac plays less of a significant role in people’s daily lives and more of shared cultural memory.